   REVISIONS FOR DREAMGRID

This is a high-level view of major changes. Revs such as 3.4 or 3.5 are releases and will trigger Update Is Available messages in the app. Anything with two digits such as 3.52 is a beta or Post Fix for an earlier rev, and will not trigger the Update Is Available Message.

V3.691 Alpha Release for 3.7
Fixes to Ban Lists for Grid name, use syntax like http://hg.osgrid.org:80
Moved Banlist.txt into Settings.ini for portability
Add a visitor list to the Local IAR that is styled like the Teleport sign

Known Issues:
Dot Net 4.8 does not compile for me. Stull at 4.6.
Viewer bans are too banny. Seems to be an Opensim bug.
You cannot run more than 1 grid on an IP without using Domain names. http://opensimulator.org/mantis/view.php?id=8771 
Arabic and Farsi translations do not work at all so they are disabled.

V3.69 Post Fixes
Add new Icons for Opensim and Robust windows
Opensim updated to #d2e7c711b4188106a  0.9.2.dev 2020-09-21 20:40:24 actually make yExceptionMessage and yExceptionTypeName avaiable"
Some NPCs from Satyr Farm would crash a region hard.
Fix the Unknown User that appears on some avatars and NPCs

V3.68 Post fixes (Beta Bleeding edge)
Opensim updated to "#650e6bbe55c55fe05 0.9.2.dev 2020-09-07 17:08	fix silly bugs on osReplaceRegionEnvironment()
Fixed birds module.dll after mistakenly deleting the .bak and .ini files. doh
Updated DreamGrid_Test_Region-1X1.oar to include birds test
Updated DreamGrid_Test_Region-1X1 to include the Outworldz Radio system. This is an always up-to-date radio system.
Updated DreamGrid_Test_Region-1X1 to include a Deathstar moon and Fantasy sun for EEP tests.
Restored OsSlEnableDG.ini default settings.

V3.67 Post Fixes (Bleeding edge Opensim)
Opensim updated to #ac8271e391bee1b 0.9.2.dev 2020-09-12 19:10:45	try reduce number of this webrequest
This mainly adds back in EEP defaults. See http://opensimulator.org/viewgit/?a=shortlog&p=opensim. Also fixes some HTTP-In

V3.65 Post Fixes (Bleeding edge Opensim)
Fixed a glitch that caused immediate crash in 3.64

V3.64 Post Fixes (Bleeding edge Opensim)
Add 100+ translations.
Add Brazilian Portuguese.
Opensim updated to #7dc50c93b82f22da8a9 0.9.2.dev 2020-08-26. This fixes a glitch in EPP that showed a missing UUID.  Also fixes a repeated debug log that occurs when the suitcase is on and a visitor arrives.
Drop PDB files to save zip file size.
Another try at fixing the missing texture popup in EEP Firestorm
Added updated parts to the Test Island:
Fixed Shaun's Radio, as it did not run in the latest Opensim. There are prims on colored tiles outlining separate parcels to test the Search Parcel features of different prims in your viewer at Hyperica.com. Tides test: there is a ruler for showing the tides going up and down 3 meters in 15 minutes and also the test buoy. I have this script in water lilies and surf in my sims. Both teleporters and the Partners prim are there for testing. And Opensim Birds are available.

V3.63 Post Fixes
Opensim updated to #e9b4bca0899f13eab 0.9.2.dev 2020-08-25. 
UPNP for new grids is on by default.  And it works. This should make it a lot easier for nooblets.
Add firewall manual on how fw.bat works.
Fixed Unicode support in Events on Hyperica.com

V3.62 Post Fixes
Added Audio and Video examples on how to play region-wide audio loops and how to play videos
Update license files to exactly match names in OAR folder. Add 6 new OARS.


V3.61 Post fixes
Opensim is Dev Master for EEP testing #af9bd993bb71ed1d6 2020-08-11 09:33:41
Altered mechanism for reading OSSL section of OpenSim.ini to use config-include/osslDefaultEnable.ini which then loads config-include/osslEnable.ini overrides.
Add osReplaceAgentEnvironment, osSetParcelMusicURL to oslEnable
Add sounds used by Firestorm keyword chat alert, user younger than x days alert, etc. 
Add default clouds, rainbow and Halo textures.


V3.6
Release of V3.592


V3.592 Release Candidate  for V3.6
Drop Addins-db-002

V3.591 Release Candidate 
Oops, some missing files in 3.59.
Also fixed a missing macro in Opensim.exe.config and robust.exe.config that stopped the "Help->Issue Console Commands->Set Debug Level" from taking effect for all sessions, not just one session.


V3.59 Release Candidate 7/24/2020
Opensim updated to the same as OsGrid: Version #b598573 0.9.2.dev. 5-22-10:55 This includes hundreds of tweaks.
Enabled built-in Denial-of-Service protection. 
Added Settable Ban lists for Grids, Viewer type, IP addresses and MAC addresses.
S4ving an oar without a .oar extension now gets .oar added on end.
RegionList could be shifted one column to the right.
Create a blank WordPress database using robust credentials.
Add manual to show how to install Wordpress. tl;dr: Save WP in Outworldzfile\htdocs\WordPress and load http://localhost/Wordpress in a browser. Use Robust credentials.
FollowSymLinks added to Apache httpd.conf for easier integration of WordPress, and Directory Index was re-ordered.
Fixed Restart on Crash to ignore physics engine.
Removed Scan of Region logs to improve performance. 
YEngine script is now the default for new DreamGrids.


V3.58 Post Fixes 7/14/2020
When more than one grid is run on a PC do not shut off wrong Robust.
Region Form remembers the column widths in Details mode.
OsGrid complained about 2 economy modules.
Viewers complained that items are not available even when suitcase is off. This is a visual reminder to local users that their inventories are unavailable while they are traveling, and available when they return. Now should warn only if you enable suitcase, and off if you disable the suitcase. 
OsGrid alias added to match the latest OsGrid specs.
Map button disabled except when this is a grid.
Adding a region did not add a hole in the firewall.
PHP warns in Apache log now suppressed.
Fix black on black text in White Theme when authorizing a user.
Added a pose stand patch to Opensimulator by Lotek. This adds all poses in the Firestorm floater, so the floater works in Opensimulator, making the need for 3rd party pose stands/HUDs obsolete. His alert sound patch adds the alert sound that Firestorm uses to signify radar alerts and keyword alerts.
Added XMLRPC port to each Region for third party tools to control Opensim. 
http://opensimulator.org/wiki/RemoteAdmin:RemoteAdmin_Examples
Stopped a recursive timer tick from happening on slow machines which again delayed startup of Regions.

V3.57 Post Fixes 7/6/2020
Bug Fix:Console = None works again.
Performance: Skip huge folders with no Dlls in updates 
Bug Fix:  timer reentrant issue that shut down the icons.  
Performance: Added back the DoEvents to make UI more responsive.
Coding: Added example on how to make an addin for Opensim
Bug Fix: Local Events missing a column.

7-1041
V3.56 Post Fixes 6/18/2020
New Feature: Updates could destroy added on services such as WordPress or Joomla.  Added a switch to 
Apache to select "DreamGrid Diva", WordPress, or Joomla/JOpensim or "Other" folder as the home page, 
such as http://(your grid):80, aka http://(your grid). Documentation on this is not in this update. 
But to put it simply, there are three new folders in Apache/htdocs. Unzip Joomla or WordPress in the folder.
Change the Setting in Apache, click the Apache icon and select Restart. The rest is just setting up your CMS.
Improvement: Change priority of webserver to realtime to help icons stay in sync on super busy servers.
Tweak: Re-write Icecast XML on Start, not just boot.
Crash prevention: If blank "Server Admin" email, use "not@set.yet" to allow Apache to start anyway. 
Performance: Don't scan logs if Restart on physics Crash is set for anything but Bullet in a separate thread, as it useless.


V3.55 Post Fixes 6/12/2020
Added a Refresh button to the OAR loader

V3.54 Post Fixes 6/10/2020
Welcome Regions with a space in the name could not be tp'ed to over the Hypergrid. A really old bug, too.
Allow YEngine and Xengine to be selected per region.
Show map photos without lines or text.
Added a Show All Maps button to Map page.
Pretty print Licenses with wordwrap and length restriction.
OpenJPEG not CSJ2K to cut down on warnings.
Fixed graph glitch when resizing home.


V3.53 Post Fixes 6/2/2020
Tuned Apache.conf for speed, security, in effort to "Future Proof" if people add Wordpress or Joomla.
Include conf/extra/httpd-mpm.conf whioch has been tweaked to use  a 4 core machine without too much RAM in use. 
Added MIMEMagicFile module and conf/magic for peeking in file contents to determine the MIME type.
Just in case of user error, prevent .user.ini PHP settings files from being viewed by Web clients.
Added a bunch of mod_deflates for compression for various browsers.
Added a bunch of expires by type for web browsers built-in caches.


V3.52 Post Fixes 5/31/2020
'admin' password for Icecast was the same as the stream password.  Extended the "new grid" random passwords to 15 characters.

V3.51 Post fixes. 5/28/2020
Tweaks at turn off DEBUG in opensim.exe.config, make a longer default password for Wifi Admin.


V3.5 Release 5/26/2020
General Release and set to trigger "Update Needed" via AutoUpdater.
Made the Region Chooser resizable and remember its size per request from Ethan Breck. Nice idea!

V3.49 Release candidate for 3.5 5/22/2020 
Oops, IM and receive objects via IM over HG was broken.

V3.48 Release Candidate for 3.5 5/22/2020
Map tiles in MySQL are automatically deleted when rebuilt to save disk space.
Offline message module fixes.
3-day auto backup would not work due to extra leading space
Stopping a multi-folder system would stop all Robust boxes. Now it uses the Robust Process ID.
Home page Icons relocated so app supports Large fonts. 
Clicking an icon has a restart option to start or restart the service.
Icons have Help option for each background service.

V3.47 Release Candidate for 4.5 4/26/2020
The IAR save only saved the Wifi Admin IAR. Reverted back to standard Opensim so you need to know or reset the users password. Doh!

V3.46 Release 4/26/2020
Opensim checks passwords for IARS now, but you only use Wifi Admin’s password. Makes it much easier to dump an IAR for a customer/user and makes it more secure. Users can load IARS in the Wifi Web Panel using their password.

V3.45 Release 4/21/2020
Change Offline IM Group port to port 8003 to stop endlessly repeating error messages in Robust.
Allow empty bin\Libraries.proto for one person who wants no library.
Simplified Try catch to catch all exceptions everywhere. 
Speed up detection of stopped Robust and Icecast windows. 
Lots and lots of small Search changes to make it more reliable and stop all the "Search is offline" messages
Could not disable search entirely. Now you can.
Upnp Manager crash fix.
Enabling Apache will remove and re-install the service on startup to make it easier to move to a new folder.
PHP.ini got duplicated - now it's just one. Also changed some PHP settings for Search.


V3.44 Release
Try Catch OAR load from web and other Web checks to remove dependency on Outworldz and Hyperica.
More checks on WindowsTitle as Windows is not always setting them.


V3.43 Release 4/7/2020
Missing line of code broke Gloebits if any settings were not the default.
Home page links fixed in viewer for login and Help

V3.42 Postfixes released 3/27/2010
Region Restart Form could crash if you fat-fingered some settings. Now it saves on close after sanity checks.
On first boot, Welcome did not start due to not having a group port.
TOS form would save, but not stick around after an update or a change from black to white or custom.
Always set Gloebits INI as region servers will crash without it set up.
Wrong folder for cache. Oops.
Just hide the damn downloader.

V3.41 Post fixes release 3/6/2020
A load OAR or Load IAR search and clicking to load it got you the wrong item.  Thankxx for the tip, Scott Taylor!

V3.4 release 2/28/2080
Fixed issues in German Translation that caused a crash for Dieter Mueller. Thank you very much for the valuable feedback.
About 100 of the translations were not 'taking'.
New form for Nooblets to use to create the initial avatar. Thanks to Garry Beaumont for pushing for this.
Avatar View in Region list was not set to visible. Oops
Spellcheck every manual - Office 365 Word has no grammer (sic) or other errors, and it shows readability from 6th to 9th grade so there is no excuse for not reading them. 
Publicity module crash when nothing was entered.  There was a string set to nothing. Should have been "", which is not nothing.



V3.38 Beta
Extensive refactoring and state machine changed in region restart.  
Main form resizes in all screen scale font size.
Updated 15460 translations, including hand-updated German and French. Thank you very much to all the volunteers!
Should be able to change most settings and restart the region without shutting down the grid.
Sped up lots of places and much more threading during boot and shutdown.  

V3.37 Beta
Updates started at 0, should be  at curtrent version to prevent repetitive begging for updates.
Robust double start fixes.
DNS shows busy when testing.
Allow changes to Opensim.ini, Gloebits and birds to take effect without resetting the entire system, usually through changing a region settings.
Max region port function would not always return the highest port, preventing multiple DOS boxes from booting w/o restarting the system

V3.36 beta
Possible hard crash in Check for Update if going from from V3.34 to V3.35.  A variable was FALSE, should have been a number

V3.35 Beta
Added Search to Load OAR and Load IAR (web)
Stopped a crash on Server 2016 if Publicity was blank.
Several Updater and Downloader changes so updates can be skipped. Updates are automatically downloaded to a zip file in the root folder. The next startup or Help->Check For Updates, it detects the fresh zip and asks if you want to update to that version. If yes, it brings up the Backup screen, then shuts down mysql and Apache, and launches an unzipper.   if you chose No, it will not prompt you again until the next version is ready.

V3.34 Beta
When region is not running, speed up region click from 15 seconds to 1 second by using an async TCPCLient to probe the port.
Reset CPU usage to 90% instead of 75% for slow machines
Crash on Server 2016 when SetMyINI value is nothing.

V.33 Beta 
Can always hide region DOS boxes,always show, or hide when done with an action.
God Mode fixes where region overrides could get stuck on or off
Disable Residents fixes where region overrides could get stuck on or off
Lots of tweaks to region restart.
Made it so the chooser and other important dialogs pop to the front. It was not really possible to edit two regions, before this. 
Can now add multiple regions at the same time withou breakage.
A Diagnostics log to show the details.
Added uncaught exception error handler/logger.  See Error.log if it just quits.
Use HTTP with redirects at server in case SSL fails.
A new "Pausing" icon/state when Region Recycling is used. Restarts will be about 30 seconds now as there are two stages
Allow_osMessageObject and Allow_osGetNotecard set true for Satyr farming by non estate managers.
Updates to Nuget repos.
Updated Apache to latest version 2.4.1 so it can handle TLS1.3.
Generate graphic titles to all web-downloadble IAR and OARs. 
Reworked Cache on main server to load much faster.  My server's SSD needs upgrading due to all the 3D crap you peeps get for free.  Its 385 GB used out of 400. Eeep!
SSL added to Hyperica.com content. What a pain.  Should be "Future-proof" for both SSL and non-SSL versions of Hyperica.com and Outworldz.com by not using SSL at all except thru server-side redirects.
Checked every possible web access, and no it does not break your grid if Hyperica or Outworldz.com is down.  Grid-wide Search and load OAR and IAR will obviously be offline.  Deal with it.
Closing the settings form now closes all the child settings forms for garbage collection.
15X15-sized region was not selectable, and the settings defaulted to max of 4 if you looked again after a save.
Tests DNS name when saved.

V3.32 Beta 

Clicking the Clear cache button could cause a crash if the fsasset folder did not exist.


V3.31 Beta

A major change in internal structure should speed up the region list and boot to be significantly faster. This also improves responsiveness due to fewer blocking loops.

New grids will get a set of regions at a random starting address. This greatly reduces the problem of teleport fails when hypergridding between grids where the regions are at the same X and Y location. You can't.

Both the Metropolis map and the Google map use automagic to center the welcome region on the map.

Avatar counts now match between the region list and the main form. It used to leave the last avatar count on the main form.

If you hover on the Main form where it says N Avatars, you get a list of avatars and the region.

Clicking an avatar name in the region list brings up a teleport to the avatar. This works best if the Viewer you are using was the last viewer you installed.

Concierge announces the avatar Login/Logout in the DreamGrid console.

Double start of Robust should be gone now. It was recursion and timing related.

Opensimulator now uses UseCSJ2K for maps. This should reduce the number of warnings when making higher resolution maps.

MAXprims has been tweaked when you set a override.

The updater has been tweaked to be significantly faster. It runs in background and leaves a zip file of the proper revision in the root folder.

Icecast did not get updated on Startup, but only when you saved the form. Moving the system to a new folder thus broke Icecast.

Maps uses UseCSJ2K for fewer warnings.

This version has a new var region preview map button. There is a button in Help where you select the region, and a button in the Popo up form when you click a region in the Region List.

Clicking a region name in the Regions form no longer brings up the DOS Box. There is a View Console button in the popup.

Changing the enable flag in Regions did not prompt "save?", if you just closed the region box.

Cache clear happens much faster. Except for scripts. Nothing more I can do there as every script has to be examined.

Selecting an OAR showed the entire row selected. Now it is just the cell, Thanks AI Austin!


V3.3 - This is a general release and is in the Automatic Updater.

Opensim set to Released OpenSimulator version 0.9.1.1 Snail #7bdc408caca3. This changes some LSL constants so an automatic script cache clear will be done at first boot.

Content menu Load Free Oar and Load Free IAR pulls data at startup with images, licenses, and names of all free OARS and IARS. 

Inworld restarts of a region are always buggy. Now set so any Inworld Restart shuts down the entire Instance. You must set the the Auto Restart capability of DreamGrid to restart the sim.

Allow logins while scripts are loading which speeds up reboot.

UbODE: convex shape type on normal prims and sculpts enabled, and MeshFileCache enabled (UBODE only)

llCastRay set to V3 which Meshes prims for good accuracy in ray hit detection, handling basic and tortured prims, sculpts and meshes.
* Uses ellipsoid, correctly sized avatar capsules.
* Handles complex terrain, multi-prim objects and seated avatars.
* Implements throttling and the status codes RCERR_UNKNOWN and RCERR_CAST_TIME_EXCEEDED, so LSL scripts need to handle these responses and RCERR_SIM_PERF_LOW.

V3.299
New: Opensim updated to 066a6fbaa1 ("changes on lludp acks and resends", 2019-12-18) which hopefully will fix where you cannot see mesh and land when running a viewer.

Bug: MaxPort function had a bug in it that caused an occasional crash when adding a region.

Fix: Deregistering all regions was awkward to run as mysql had not been started.

New: Region Popup now has a View Log button.

Minor: An 'alert' was missing in one load oar 

Fix: Would never start a region if CPU > 75%. Was supposed to start after 1 minute wait.

Minor: Added more checks for bad region numbers.

Minor: Reduce region icon size to 20 px

Bug: No single quotes allowed in DOS box names as the Windows handler cannot grab hwnd PID with a single quote in the name. Regions can have single quotes in them.
V3.298
Restart, Error handler, and Shutdown logic changes after a DreamGrid restart where it has to find and re-attach to each region. This fixes the CPU usage = 0 and other glitches in the Region list. These occurred when DreamGrid was restarted with regions already running and it could not find the Process ID.
Global and Local Search uses V3HG links which work inside Singularity and Firestorm viewer, Media On A Prim, and in Web Links. Many thanks to AI Austin and 
Robust logging set back to INFO from DEBUG.
Ports are initialized sequentially only at boot. Adding a new region puts the port onto the end. This stops Region confusion when regions are added while system is running.
Regions > 4X4 in some cases would not load using the GUI.
Icecast port defaults changed to 8100-8102 for new users only.
Minor Start/Stopped button fixes when something goes wrong in a boot.
Icon size was off by 4 pixels in Region List which goofed up Large Screen mode

V3.297
Teleport signs could be fooled into showing offline regions if a region had crashed or been stopped without a quit command. Now they have to be both enabled and booted, too.
OAR menus refreshed every hour from Hyperica/Outworldz – no need to restart to get a new release of a Region.
Regions have an Override per region for Script Engine for X or Y Engine.
UBODE and Bullet are the remaining Script Engines
Diva Wifi updated to latest version which repairs problems in adding Default Avatars.
Load OAR 0.9 link was busticated.
New Categories for Publicity (and fixed the ones with commas).
Ports and Script Engines now show in Region Lists.
IF Apache is a service, leave MySQL running so PHP maps work.

V3.296
Added a Log->Error Log to the menu. This log is the first place to look when it crashes. Its always been there, just not in the menu. Doh!
Changes to the way it detects the process IDs of running Opensim. Added a single class to monitor all of them. Hopefully, this will eliminate some of the odd things that have been reported that happen on occasion, such as not closing he DOS windows, but only on first boot.
MySQL now stops when you click Stop. This helps prevent MySQL corruption. If Apache is running as a Service, MySQL, PHP, and Apache are left running, even when you exit so your map and home pages will still appear. Diva Wifi Web page is part of Robust, so it will not.
Tweaks to the 4 icons, including a new Red X Error Icon.
Updated Licenses to some of the downloadable OAR files to be absolutely clear which ones are exclusive to the Outworldz.
V3.295

Opensim Release 0.9.1.1 2019-12-03 14:27 #5c5e4bd8304dbb607a mantis 8632: stop triggering Changed on just scale checks

rm extra CRLF when first starting up and creating the first user.


V3.294
Publicity module (finally) lets you add descriptive text to your Hyperica Listing. Category setting where you can click one or more sections to appear in the new Destination Guide.
Fixed a lot of Unicode problems in Events and Search.
If a region responds when it is popped up onscreen after a click, make certain it also has a "running" icon.
Using Dot Net 4.6.1 (disabled legacy) features in Opensim since it is stable and the recommended setting. 
Minor changes to Send keys to try to make the 'q' key more reliable on obsolete Windows 7 machines.
V3.293
Bird module DLL was missing. Could lead to a crash if you updated from an older version and enabled birds.
V3.292
Aborted release - multiple issues with German Translation due to a newline that caused it to make crash tinkly noises.
The Region List form could be opened more than once due to a missing line of code.

V3.291
German Language translations by Ralf Burger, thank you!
Search module for local grids was broken. You need to add the path to PHP7 to the beginning of Path if you want to use local search. Global is fine.
A dozen more translations and some fixes for Globalization in forms for resizing. Unicode issues broke some things and could cause crashes.
Reordered the Search Menus to make better sense - thanks, Ai Austin!
Cleaned up all warnings about programming style that appeared in Studio 2019, so I can spot anything that might be important in the future.
Region List shows dashes (-) when the setting comes from the default, instead of a region override. This was only partly implemented before.
Implemented much more checking of human-entered values in places like the Birds form.
Added a Trouble shooting Guide to Help.

V3.29

You can click the round MySQL, Robust, Apache and Icecast status buttons to stop/start them. 
Avatar count was different in different displays.
Half-dozen new language Translations.
Was possible to have a Null Reference Exception when Booting a region if Stop button was clicked at the right time.
Busy/Start/Abort button fixes. Clicking Busy will force an Abort when shutting down.
Catch as many individual errors as it can when reading region INI files. It complains with details of what to fix, and aborts the launch.
Fix check if MySQL is running so Estates and Avatars will appear in region list.
Sequential/Timer Boot before running a next region, not after.
Precise CPU graph with a 4-second running average for Sequential/Timer - makes it bobble around 75% CPU when booting.
Added freeware program to Help 'cports.exe' Which can show all ports that are in use to help troubleshoot anti-virus and port glomming applications.
Open firewall as a separate thread for speed. Firewall has to run only if you change a region port setting, by adding or deleting, or on first start.
You cannot HG between two identical region locations. New systems change the "Welcome" region location from 1000,1000 to a random number from 1000 to 2000 to allow Hypergrid to other grids that have 1000,1000 set. Also sets the map center to the Welcome region location, whatever it is. Additional regions are added 4 to the right of the highest region as it did before.
Catch user 'blank' entries in Regions and Maps Settings.
"Allow Level Gods" was unchecked in Region Form, as it is based on the other settings being a null string, not "False".
Removed some unneeded logging that slowed down the system.
Warn if region location X,Y < 32, not possible to be that low in HG sims.
Enable Edit Button in Region Popup only if region is stopped.
Abort Handler reworked to end a race condition that should prevent occasional extra warnings on crashed regions. Also much faster to restart and recycle.
Codemaid extension in Visual Studio settings are saved in Git for multi-system development. Codemaid is a great tool for making the source consistent, but you need the same settings on each machine.
A Warm start is when you start DreamGrid on an already running Robust and set of regions. DG located into the Robust and regions as if it had already started them. Warm Starts after a "Just Quit" did not populate region handles list. This is fixed so RAM will now show up. Should also allow us to catch a crash after a Warm start.
I spell checked this document, finally. :-)

V3.28
Region List sometimes crashed the system when a race condition occurred after adding a region.
Region List now remembers the column widths for Detail view. 

V3.27
An Overall-Try-Catch in Application Events shows an error message and where the error occurred. Do not quit on an exception.
A missing or offline Welcome caused an issue - fixed
Added a Webstats button to region popup. It is enabled when the region is running
FSassets backup could cause a crash if folder did not exists
Suppressed several hundred warnings on Exceptions not being specific.
Remove compiled languages from git repo.

V3.26
Added 20 different language translations for 700+ phrases, resized many forms and prompts and tooltips to fix
Added YEngine and XEngine Switch

V3.25
Disable region Auto Backup added to region Overrides
Drop a useless old images to reduce size of exe
God mode fixes galore, reset defaults in Region INI to blanks
Added Overrides to Region List Details for carious Gods, Publicity and to skip region Auto Backup
Teleport hop link updated to hop in region list as secondlife link no longer works in Firestorm 6 series.
Clear script cache automagically if Opensim version or hash changes

V3.24
Updated to Released Opensim "0.9.1.1 Yeti "Server Release Notes" hash #defa235859889dbd". This is one patch past 0.9.1.0 for server release notes.

V3.23
Teleport to a region from within DreamGrid in the Region Start/Stop popup panel. 
Robust, Apache, Icecast and MySQL can be set to auto restart if they crash.
Update Mysq.Data.dll
Update Visual Studio 2017 to latest FXcops and reduce footprint on unused extension in Github
Removed embedded zip compressors for smaller footprint.
Drop unused icons

V3.22
Shorten boot time by being smart about Firewall updates. On an extremely fast machine, it takes 9 seconds to get to robust start. Firewall took up 31 seconds more. Now it takes 0 unless you add a region.
Restart Robust, Apache, MySQL, and Apache if Auto restart is Enabled

V3.21 
Saving a region and them immediately re-opening it did not show changes. The changes were saved to disk but not reloaded into RAM.
Rework the way ports increment from the starting number
Catch error in a crashed region that goes down while shutting down.
Strict type checking on some region variables. Integers, singles, and doubles versus strings.
Add Sean's latest Radio IAR to the free IAR collection
Y coordinate changed when X changed - was supposed to be region size.
God mode overrides fixed. They always overrode the global for Level 200 Gods to off, even if unselected.
Prevent a lower versus upper case issue if the puny human entered 'Autobackup'.

V3.2 Release Rollup
A wrong "print" caused a crash when a backup was manually run.
Always use English culture until translations are available.


V3.197
Local Search in Settings did not 'stick;
Add Visual C++ 2015 installers for PHP7
Local search was broken by PHP7 - missing explicit ossearch directive
Fix up local search PHP to use "Metromap/includes/config.php" database include

V3.196
Added Garry Beaumont's wrecked home Icon that shows when the Welcome region is disabled.
Missing PHP7 extension prevented PHP from making maps, links, or search.
Clearing asset cache when running did not work. It went to robust instead of the online regions. It worked if you were offline.
Added a Module for File/folder copy and delete to clean up warnings and catch all possible errors.
Apache Settings allowed both Local and Global search to be set. Now a toggle for one or the other.

V3.195
New updater process loads files in background to a specific zip file. You can choose to ignore this version. It will re-prompt the next release. 
Dot Net zip set back to be 1.11.0 to be compatible with older updater. This causes a crash in the DLL.

V3.194
Big speed up on registering DYN DNS
Speed up Saving regions
Move Apache to its own setting.

Metro Maps was missing an include
V3.194
Speed up Saving regions
Move Apache to its own setting.
Set Apache to only run programs in htdocs
Metro Maps was missing an include

V3.193 
Unchecking Apache as a Service removes the service
Bug in Email prevented it from emailing confirmation of a new user
Bug in Settings caused Clear Cache button to crash
Cache setting added to enable viewer caches.
Iconic Zip DLL embedded in exe for updates.

V3.192
Update PHP to PHP7
Add Home Icon for the Welcome region when it is booted
Detect running Opensim and add them to PID so we can stop them
Test with Joomla/JOpensim
Refactors for Region Type, Usings, RobustDBConnection

V3.191
Stupid Oops in Regions. Could not add a new region

V3.19 
Updated manual for upcoming 3.2 release
Fixed glitch in V3.18 in Cloud Density
Disallow Foreigners switch added per-region. This lets you keep assets in your grid by disallowing assets to leave, yet allowing HG visitors to come and go.
Disallow Resident switch added per-region. This allows only Region Owners and Estate Managers in any given region.
Checked all IM vars against Opensim source and made minor changes they may help with the offline IM's getting stuck. Port 8003 should not need to be opened to allow IM's.

V3.18
Export Checkbox in Settings->permissions to disallow export of prims from viewers. Default -> Allow
If an OAR is loaded into a Var region > 4X4, allow it.
Removed lots of warnings in Visual Studio 2019.

V3.17 is a release candidate for V3.2, the official release that everybody gets a notice to update to.
There is no longer an "updater versus installer". For backwards compatibility, there are still two files on the web server, but they are identical. 
If you want to start over with a blank database, you can just delete MySQL\data and it will be rebuilt as a blank system
New background updater process.
"Welcome to " & SimName() & " , <USERNAME>") set for welcome message.
Build process is much faster by using a temp folder instead of adding and deleting from a zip. Also easier to audit.
Put back support for older TLS 1.0 protocols so older systems can update.
Console Commands did not always pop open the DOS window
Load OAR in some earlier versions was borked.
GDI+ error when changing Publicity Photo is fixed
Snapshot, MinTimerInterval, Disable Gloebits fixed in region Overrides
MYSQL speedup with a small cache: query_cache_size=8M
Compile instructions updated.
Add help for ServerType, thanks to Garry Beaumont
Access of shared member through an instance; qualifying expression will not be evaluated refactored

V3.16 Beta
Search improvements for local and global search - sped up Datasnapshot interval, better HGV3 link that does not require a second click. Shows # hours each sim has been online in search, and dwell time (the Second Life visitor metric). 

V3.15 Beta 
Opensim Snail dev master #38dbc0328881 2019-08-31 14:36
Ctrl-R Region Form also shows the Estate name for each region
Search: Lots of new things! Search is integrated into Hyperica.com. You can look for Objects Marked for search in any Outworldz gird, or just your own. Also, locate Parcels, Grids, and regions in grids. These are only shown if the region owner chooses to enable search and the Prim Owner, region owner, or parcel owner has cheeked the "Show in Search button".
Added a new variable to Opensim Datasnapshot module to allow all grids to be searched.
Disable Search button added to Viewer Search. If on, you can set it so your residents see local only, or globally Search all Dream grids.
Datasnapshot collector starts 5 minutes after a boot to speed up collecting assets for search. Runs every hour after that locally.
Some Settings would not be placed into the Region or Opensim.ini files when changed unless you did a restart. Most changes to settings now re-write the region so it will boot correctly.
Import Dreamworld and "regular" Opensim INI files button in the Region Panel would not work if the file name did not match the [name] of the region. Fixed.
Changed Voice Help URL to match new Vivox web page for signup.
Windows can return a null PID from Process(). It should wait until there is a PID before returning. But nooooo it does not, so I added a fix to Boot () to make sure we have a valid PID so we can minimize windows. This may explain whey sometimes it does not type 'q' in certain windows.
Slow down the tests on quitting to prevent spamming the console.
Add more UPNP exception catchers to cover more brain-dead routers.
Major refactor of defaults for all region params to stop weird crashes on imported or brain-dead INI files. For example, a sim size of 0 was allowed by Opensim INI files. duh
Setting a new Publicity Photo could kill a system if the Hyperica server is offline or unreachable. Improve error handling here. There should be no dependency on any of my servers, except for optional services such as DYN DNS or search.
Updated Apache to latest security SSL/TLS 1.2 and made it refuse all obsolete ciphers like TLS 1.0 and 1.1. Tested as not being vulnerable to any common attacks such as Heart bleed.

V3.13 Beta
Repaired OsGrid and other region types that broke in prior beta version
Added a Disable Gloebits setting in region settings. This overrides the global setting if Gloebits are on.
Refactored a lot of internal settings to use native types and also set defaults for all variables in Regions.

V3.12 Beta
Sped up Opensim using Ubit's optimized Dot Net bug fix for Windows 1903 and compiled with dev master #5b39860573 2019-08-02 12:13:53
Robust logging set to INFO, as it was too noisy in DEBUG
Added auto-updating Sitemap.xml for htdocs and bin/data
Added Web Statistics button for many statistics for each region in the Region Panel
Auto firewall setup was missing the second Icecast Port
Fixed an issue where Apache could not run properly on ports other than 80
Datasnapshot was not registering in Local Search mode, which broke Local Search, and used wrong http port if it was changed.

V3.11 Beta
Aviworlds Region Server lets you attach to Aviworlds easily.
Added Restart Robust Button
Added logic to catch UPNP errors on some machines/routers.

V3.1 Released 7/29/2019
Backup no longer blocks operation of the system
Backup FSAssets, too.
Xbakes enabled
IM Offline works without having to open port 8003.
Firewall code typo put an extra Apache Http Port 80 in the firewall every start.


V3.06
PHP Maps and Search working for any MYSQL port. Older systems used port 3309 as 3306 was use by some for Sim-On-A-Stick or OsGrid/Metro.
Use port 8003 for Offline IM to fix a problem where IM's would loop endlessly in the Console
Save IAR was non functional when all the Handles got dropped.
Save IAR needs to find a running region. If the first region was found, the region was not popped up on screen. Old bug.
osGetGridGatekeeperURI enabled for teleport HUD by anybody.

V3.05 
Fixed doubled Auto teleports for Prim V2.5

V3.04 
Fixed a bug where the Auto Teleporters showed regions that are unmarked for teleports.
Opening Cache form with a lot of cache caused an exceedingly long pause. 
Fixed a case where Apache may not start reliably. 

V3.03
Added Help for FSAssets.
Added more visible help button to all forms.
Flotsam Cache variables can be changed to reduce disk space usage. See Settings->Caches.
System Backup has options for each type of backup to make and includes FSAssets data.
Added MinTimerInterval to each region INI file. Smallest value you should use is 1/11 of a second, as that is Opensim's internal Frame rate. 

V3.02
Added Windows 1903 patches for Dot net 4.8 that caused many issues with MOAP, and changing land settings.
Checkbox to enable FsAssets - a disk based De-duplicating Asset File system. I recommend you start your regions one at a time so they will be properly de-duplicated one time.
Reworked Region/OsGrid server to allow regions to have their own IP address. Usually you do not need to do anything to run a region server except to
add the DNS name and change the setting. But this fails if the region server is on a different network. See Ports section Help for details.
Auto Teleports now support multiple region servers. Avatar counts will not work on Region servers - no access to the data unless you edit robust settings and grant access to the robust server with special MySQL commands.
Added a catch-all Error message handler for any missed exceptions to catch unexpected crashes.
Flotsam cache can be adjusted in size with a new panel.
Allow the Partners to work on region server. Also updated the Steam punk TP and set the partners prim to full mod/copy.
SupportViewerObjectsCache -= true explicitly to help with missing prims, theoretically this does nothing as true is the default. See http://opensimulator.org/mantis/view.php?id=8516

V3.01 
ExternalHostName added to the Port section for use on non-NATed Region servers.
Added Outworldz Teleport System V2.5.iar to the Local IAR. This teleporter supports more than 32 sims. Just change the description from 0 to 1, or 2 or 3, and reset the scripts.
Create Region Name could not be typed into at the ending. Trim() fixed. 
Moved KillAll scripts towards end of boot, and made it run only once.
Lowered Cache sizes to 4 hr from 48 and made it adjustable.

V3.0 
Functionally the same as V2.96 with some additional Help file tweaks.

V2.96
Allow more than one LCD screen in the Auto re-positioner/resizer
Enable Xbakes
Server Visitor screens by Garry Beaumont in Local IAR

God mode for level 200+ incorrect also set Region Owner gods to on.

V2.95
Compiled with Opensim Master 6-8-2019 #38e937f91b08a2e52 
Helps fix prims not being seen – if still losing them, lower your viewer bandwidth
Create inventory entries for textures uploaded with a model
MySQL could use up too many handles
Fixed %CPU to 2 digits on main screen
Databaseinfo.php and config.php are set automatically to match possible database user/password changes – used in Search, examples, and maps.
Stop printing extra '0 regions running' while it checks them all, just stop.
Add Microsoft Runtime for Visual C++ 2012 32 and 64 bit


V2.94
Fix a case issue on Partners that broke partnering prim

V2.93
Auto detect any loopback adapter named "Loopback", and set it up when the grid starts.
This set loopback adapters with the correct IP automatically.
V2.92
Correct the count of HG Avatars in Region List – was showing only the 1st one
Added a longer timeout to MySQL connections.
Drop Xbakes 
“real' check if sim is still shutting down by poking port.

V2.91 
Fixed nasty bug on Regions that caused crashes when region was renamed
Icons change in region list for 1 or more avatars
Allow oSSetDynamic texture and other settings so Aine Caoime’s (Anya Kee-vah) dance machine works for anyone.
Programmable Welcome Message on viewer screen
OsGrid and Metro support. 
Comes with MSFT signed installers for Apaches' necessary DLL's.
Bug in 3X3 load oar fixed where two of the tiles has wrong coordinates.
Deletes all old DLLs that are not in the list 'dll.txt'.
Installs for Microsoft C++ 1012 32/64 bit which are needed for Apache.
A UUID could be zeroed out, leading to a crash.

V2.90
Release of V2.89 with another DLL deleted.

V2.89
Try-catch a possible crash on events load if Outworldz web site is offline. There should never be any dependencies on having an external PC running except for ns1.outworldz.net for dynamic DNS and that only applies to outworldz.net users. DreamGrid pulls a list of available OARS, IARs, and events from Outworldz.com web site periodically, and these are dependent on Outworldz.com being online.
Removed bin\addins as it is old, unused, and may have old DLLS in it leading to mysterious crashes about log4net because log4net is now Dot net 4.6.

V.28
Add Gloebit back in.
Delete 11 DLL's left over from ancient updates.

V2.87
Compiled with Opensim Dev Master 4/24/2019 #11cad57c9cac5 
You should clear the script cache before starting this version as the large jump in Opensim code will likely lead to Script errors.
RegionReady set to localhost as Server2016 will run without Administrator mode.

V2.86 
Patched to fix Sequential Start. If on, nothing happened to delay the next sim from starting immediately but it should have waited for the previous sim to boot first, then start the next region. If off, CPU less than 75% is needed before the next sim will start or stop.

V2.85 
Link to web page takes you to http://yourgrid:80where the large map is, or 8002, depending upon whether Opensim is running, and if you have Apache web server enabled. 
Apache port is movable. If your ISP blocks :80, try :8000
Diagnostics loopback test reworked for Server 2016. 
Icons fixed on Server 2016 by moving port 8001 to listen to localhost only.

V2.84 
Search local or remote grids is now a global setting. Global is still being edited, as it has no grid info yet.
Paging, search, sort by columns in Search Objects.
Events re-added by a pull from Outworldz e very hour and on startup

V 2.83
Apache 2.4 and PHP 5 added - may be enabled by a new switch in Web Control panel. You can run HTML and JavaScript with it or host your own Port 80 Web pages, assuming your ISP allows port 80.
Hypergrid.org‘s “MetroMap” (large and small) added to the url http:://(grid):80/Metromap and to the Wifi Home Screen.
You can run 3rd party programs such as PhpMyAdmin, Strawberry Perl and other CGI programs by adding the application. 
Perl examples for Template::Toolkit and DBIX::Class to manipulate the database are included in the Apache\htdocs\PerlExamples folder.
PHP Examples are in the Apache\htdocs\Search folder for Classifieds, Logging, Dumping Objects, Parcels, Regions, and Hosts.
Objects and regions marked as ‘Show in Search’ are Searchable in the Viewer (Ctrl-F in Firestorm). Requires Apache and PHP Switch to be enabled in Web Pages. Classifieds do not work yet.
Load OAR defaults to all options off.
New Auto-Restart on Crash switch enabled by default.
New Auto-Restart on Bulletsim Crash.
Memory leak plugged 
Sort order sorted for X,Y and RAM in Region Panel by adding leading zeros.
Faster startup started faster by skipping phase II settings unless you have edited something.
Predefined Colored logs
Enable these colored logs by selecting Save on Exit option ‘To File in Application Directory’ 

2.82 
Disabling a region while shutting it down caused the Regions panel to not render.
Help always appeared for Load Oar 2X2
Added a PopUp for 1X1 so you can set more options.
Added back the View buttons to Regionlist and made them resize and re-position the list

2.81
Add Memory used for each region to Region panel
Add RAM graph
Add Avatar, CPU and RAM to front panel
Save width for Main Form

2.8 Release 
2.79E = 2.8

2.79A through E:
Avatar count shown on main form at upper right.
Prompts before shutting down if any avatars are in any region. So you can deliberately kill then all! bwuhahaha
Clear Caches was in Help, now is a Settings Button for consistency.
Baretail logging system with colorized text, live scrolling.
"View All Logs" loads all logs into Baretail as tabs. Baretail.exe in the root folder remembers them.
"View Region Log" fixed to show the DOS box log instead of the region, which only worked on the last region in a DOS box.
Scrolling text in Status panel.
Resizable main form.
CPU speed graph for last 3 minutes.
Improved PC firewall ports opened on start.
Turns off the DOS box Quickedit mode. If you clicked a DOS box, it paused which eventually crashes the sim. Works on Private or Public Networks, not Domain.
Regions panel added an Avatar view that shows a list of avatar names and the regions they are in. Double-clicking a name will start a teleport sequence to that avatar in your viewer.
Region Panel remembers the last view set, and will reappear after a restart if it was open. 
Many changes to Recycling and Auto restart. More icons for recycling regions. Recycle up and recycle down are single blue arrows, Bootup and Shutdown are double Blue arrows.

2.78
The Log viewer 'baretail' is included. It lets you colorize text, is zippy fast, and auto-scrolls to the latest entry, like Unix tail does.
Caps lock no longer interferes with console typing. I hate the Cap Lock Key. 
Load OAR options: 2x2, 3X3 and 4X4 clickable forms, with options for UserName & ForceMerge & ForceTerrain & ForceParcel & Displacement
Will abort Normalize regions if region locations will go negative or zero in X or Y.
Repositioned Web Maps for better fit to normalized region
Log level for robust set to INFO, instead of DEBUG, less spam, more speed.

2.77
Fix for Partners
Firewall Ports on PC are opened for you.
Robust 'create user' sent extra CRLF making it impossible to create the initial owner

2.76
Blank DNS name needs no password, becomes LAN IP.
Restart Region patch

2.75
Region Panel added some of the overrides and global region settings. These can be sorted as well.
Also, the Height and Width you last used are saved and restored.
Start/Stop/Restart All Buttons added to Region Panel
Region Chooser fixed to have New Name at top.

2.74 
Teleports 2.4 fix - these do not spam the console. Does not require any settings to be set such as allow LSL scripts. 
Allow LSL when checked, scripts lets you manually edit the Allowed IP Addresses in Opensim.proto
Start Regions Sequentially: Unchecked, the system starts a new region every few seconds. This can overwhelm the memory and CPU on slower systems.
UnChecked normally starts a new region if CPU is 75% or less. 
Checking this box will start them one at a time and wait for it to boot completely. It will wait up to 3 minutes per region, then move on.
Changes to Icecast ports or settings did not 'stick' would not overwrite file.
More Help on Loopback, Regions, Start/Stop

2.73
OAR file save would dump one region into all OARS. not just one
Sort Chooser screen
BaseURL was incorrect in some 2.72

2.72
Simple Google HTML Map added to http://localhost:8002/wifi/map.html
Allow only letters, numbers '.' and '-' in DNS names/IP Addresses
New User Home X,Y,Z: Users that create accounts on the web page will land at this spot on your Welcome region with their home set here so they can hypergrid back home.
Simplified INI constants updated from Jeff Kelly, thanks!
Suppress crash if Outworldz webserver is offline and you have Publicity checked - threaded apartment violation

2.71
Improvements to Start/Stop/Edit/Restart popup - no more double clicking effect
Try catch in case any ports were blanked out
MySQL Region port set to same as MySQL robust port on initial startup.
Removed several duplicated licenses.

2.7
Added AGPL license popup on first start
Added Startup Help on first run
Region Database can be set to a different machine and port
Clicking a region brings in region menu it to the foreground
Tab indexes set for Common Settings
Allow multi-instances. This means you can run two different folders at the same time. You must use different ports.

2.69
"Run as Administrator" for the webserver because Icons would not change reliably. Now uses a webserver class. 
Removed limit on number of regions. Was 100 to 200 before.
New "Deregister button" for region when two sims overlap.
New Rev 2.4 Teleports in the Local IARs that do not spam the console.
Log at INFO level for production use.
Many Auto Restart improvements. Recycle icon added. 
Clicking a Region gives a context sensitive Start/Stop/Recycle/Edit form.
Console titles sometimes would not 'take'. Fixed for good.
Allow blank DNS name which means to use the LAN IP.
Add Vista compatibility, also 7, 8, 10.
Help-> "View All Logs" Menu.
Help-> "View Revisions" link.
Help-> "Clear Server Cache" sixes and informational messages.
Help-> "Help on Settings" Menu

2.68
V4 updater and installer 
rm broken OpenSim.Addons.AutoRestart.dll
Deregister region button in RegionForm
Hide Icecast if consoles are hidden

2.67
Show robust Windows when console commands are sent.
Show Recycle Icons all the way down when auto restarting

2.66
Recycle Icons when auto restarting
Data snapshot checkbox would not save
Saving a region popped it into a new DOS box. 

2.65
Icon fixes for speed
Console shows stats every 5 minutes
White Web page had bad color on edit and delete user buttons
Added help for publicity

2.64 
Oops, reset MySQL Log size = 10M, not 2M, tweaks to buffers and threads
Stop trying to run if MySQL fails

2.63
White pages look more like Black, only whiter!
Added a Help Menu for all internal help files
Help for Region List and many other modules
Speed up crash recovery in MySQL
Zip builder cleanup 
Blank Database changes

2.61
Console may be hidden when booted
Fix settings bug making a shortcut each boot
Do not auto restart if MySetting.AutoRestartInterval() = 0
Do not process login shutdown message in JSON - does not work and irritates the icons
Suppress possible error in Upload Image
Personality timer now running
Always upload photo if there is one 
Doubled estate bug fixed in regions.

2.59
Web timer set to 1 MS for speedier response
Added Publicity Form

2.58
Help files pop up on form load, once.
Region type = Estate in viewer
Added many Help files 
Autobackup went to wrong folder on Key files backup

V2.57 
Setting page changed to discrete Form Buttons - no more Expert screen
Wifi pages has two themes: B&W or W&B with theme image
Add built-in Help pages 
UpdaterGridV3 released with progress reporting.

V2.56
Possible crash fix.

V2.55
Faster exit of app when regions are combined
Print count of things cleared from caches
Do not stop MySQL if already running
Updates re-enable check for updates
Faster refresh of Region Form when something changes
 
V2.54
Suppress clutter - only one DreamGrid form of each type
Added a "backup critical files" to the Content menu - copies both Wifi folders, all Regions and MySQL\data folder plus Settings.ini to Autobackup in a new folder by Date/Time
An Update prompts to make a critical files backup first.
Add Help Links for OAS and IARS and Technical Information
Fixed Region Gods switch not being displayed in Expert menu
Cache adjusted to save disk space and use a 1-minute RAM cache
Check for Updates sets Check flag back on.

V2.53 
Stop crash in Check Post, make birds be REALLY disabled when it is off by renaming the DLL

V2.52 
Click Ctrl R or Settings->Region brings the regions panel to the front unless it is minimized.
Auto restart can be set to low values if Autobackup is off. Otherwise it is set to Auto Backup interval + 0.5 hour to allow time for backup
Fixed issue where Auto restart did not always restart a region by running webserver and exit handlers on a timer
Prompt at exit to leave Opensim running.
Gifs should resize on large font machines.
Birds crash prevented on some sims by renaming OpenSimBirds.Module.dll to .bak.
Recompiled and signed all files

V2.51
Forms remember their last moved-to position. 

V2.50
Form Region now set to full size - no more [More] Button

V2.49
Some forms not set to Auto scale as DPI for high rez monitors.
More intuitive Click action on the Chooser form - Single click a cell selects the entire row, double click selects and OK's it.

V2.48
Startup sometimes checked the wrong region port when starting an offline region.

V2.47
You can create a New Group Name when installing a new region, or select an existing Group Name
Rename of region could throw an error on a blank name
Forms have Tab key reordered
Icons on all forms
Skip UPnP for Icecast if disabled (minor speedup of boot time)
Set INI for all regions, even if disabled, so you can start them at any time, add +1 to new regions ports
UPnP Manager try-catch on bad routers

V2.46 
Could not save a region name due to a bad variable name

V2.45
More graceful test of regions running at shutdown 
Region settings for Physics, once set, would not unset.

V2.44
Prim limits global setting was not being used. If Prim limits global is off, no prim limits are enforced
Set Ip to LAN IP if loopback test fails. Before it would still set WAN IP.
Set all region ports from base setting when a region is added or deleted
Deleting Caches no longer deletes script state.

V2.43
Upgrade always set region ports to 8004, or 1 on new installs- now it uses the lowest port it finds or 8004.
Birds recompiled

V2.42 
If Autobackup folder does not exist, restore the defaults.
Console logging lowered to INFO from DEBUG 
Cryptographically re-signed all EXE and DLL's
Login URL exposed to get_grid_info had an extra space in it
Opensim.log now appears in each Region folder in each Group
Support > 4 TB HDD in MySQL

V2.41
Tide High and Low Water levels were swapped

V2.4
Fix crash in Birds on quit
200 region capacity
Progress bar fix
Stop Memory leak in HttpServer_OpenSim.dll

V2.39
No need to enable "Allow LSL to reach the server" switch to use the teleporter
fix DNS names with :8002 and http://

V2.38
Teleport IAR makes a Grid-wide Teleporter for the first 32 regions.

V2.37 
Auto Restart interval for each Region Instance
Tides module lets you have working tides and floating objects that move with the water
Includes an IAR with a floating buoy

V2.36
Regions auto-count up

V2.35
God mode was always off and could only be enabled in regions.

V2.34
Add an extra {ENTER} before typing commands

V2.33
Single threaded updater - the multi-threaded version would not start a thread on some machinery.
Gloebits Sell enabled bug fixed by setting “sell” true
Bird Startup Fix
More Region Error check
Maps shows a blank tile when off.
Maps in Region Panels match Global if set to default
No accept button for TOS needed.
Better map for Better map image
Tos does not require an acceptance
Birds have two on/off, one global and one for region

Added a blank database for restart from Zero


V2.32 

"Load Local IAR" and "Load Local OAR" menu items so you can quickly find your local OARS. These links scan the Outworldzfiles\OAR and \IAR folders for files.

V2.31

Explicit casts (warnings removed)
DataSnapshotCheckBox was not showing check on form load 
Clicking Accept on TOS gave an error.
Default for Auto Restart set to off (0 minutes)
Force region to foreground when typing in commands

V2.30
Made from OpenSimulator 0.9.1.dev.24df1086fa 05-24-2018 (same as OsGrid)

Suitcase or No Suitcase? A suitcase protects your inventory from rogue grids. When you are on another grid, you can only access what is in your suitcase. You can now disable the suitcase and rez objects from anywhere in your inventory while on foreign grids.
Prim limits: Opensimulator can enforce a prim limit. Property owners can enable it to enforce MAXPRIMS on each parcel. MAXPRIMS can be set in each Region panel under 'More'
Data Snapshot for any prims marked as "show in Search". This replaces the broken Diva search. It works across all DreamGrids.
 - Prim Info (location, for sale, etc.) is sent to http://hyperica.com/. The actual search engine is under development. Enable this in Settings-Expert at bottom left corner.
 - Classified ad will soon be possible across the Outworldz.
Mail Exposed more SMTP email server settings than just Gmail.
Publicity Upload an image and description to Hyperica.com's Hypergrid list.
Region Fixes You can add a region and immediately start it. Or delete a region, and nothing will break. Clicking a region prompts you to start/stop. 
Backups changed into separate robust and opensim.sql region files. 
Clickable Console commands
 - Show lots of stats about any region.
 - User Management, Add, Show info
 - Log level management
 - Script On/Off Management
Auto-repair of port conflicts.
DreamGrid tracks Up/Down and avatar status for p to 100 regions.
Includes Opensimulator Source code and compile commands
HTML editor for TOS for web page
Blue 3-prim box icon!

Modules:
 - Web stats module for grid ops
 - Server Release Notes Module by Fly Man adds these notes to Help About
 - Auto Restart Module by Fly Man. You can Auto Restart regions automagically with a timer. If no avatars are in the region, it will auto-reset periodically. This clears RAM used by visitors and helps maintain stability. 240 minutes (4 hours) is the default.
 - Birds Module by jonc and Jak Daniels: 

There is an IAR called !OpensimBirds.iar’ in the top of the Free Avatar Parts menu. Click it to load into your master avatar, just like any other IAR. To use this, log in and rez a bird from Objects/OpensimBirds. There are two types, SeaGull1 and SeaGull2. Type this onto the region console:

birds-prim SeaGull1 <enter> (or use SeaGull2, whichever bird you have put out)
birds-start<enter>

 You should see a flock of birds fly around you and gather into a flock. 

 To make the birds auto fly, edit Outworldzfiles\Opensim\bin\startup_commands.txt.example and add the same commands. Save the file as "startup_commands.txt" and restart the system. Your birds will start to fly immediately. This is System-Wide feature. To make it per-region, move the Birds.ini file into Opensim\bin\Regions\<Groupname>\<SomeRegionName>.

Console commands:

birds-start - Start Birds Flocking to region Welcome
birds-enable - Enable Birds Flocking to region Welcome
birds-disable - Disable Birds Flocking to region Welcome
birds-size <num> - Adjust the size of the flock to region Welcome
birds-prim <name> - Set the prim used for each bird to that passed in to region Welcome
birds-speed <num> - Set the maximum velocity each bird may achieve to region Welcome
birds-force <num> - Set the maximum force each bird may accelerate to region Welcome
birds-distance <num> - Set the maximum distance that other birds are to be considered in the same flock as us to region Welcome
birds-separation <num> - How far away from other birds we would like to stay to region Welcome
birds-tolerance <num> - How close to the edges of things can we get without being worried to region Welcome
birds-stats - Show birds stats to region Welcome
birds-framerate <num> - [debugging] only update birds every <num> frames to region Welcome

Bird Module Author: https://github.com/jonc
For more information, see https://github.com/JakDaniels/OpenSimBirds
