REVISIONS FOR DREAMGRID

This is a high-level view of major changes.  For much more detail, install git. Then type 'git clone https://github.com/Outworldz/DreamWorld'.  Then run "gitk" to see every change ever made.

V2.85 
Link to web page takes you to http://yourgrid:80where the large map is,  or 8002, depending upon whether Opensim is running, and if you have Apache webserver enabled. 
Apache port is movable. If your ISP blocks :80, try :8000
Diagnostics loopback test reworked for Server 2016.  
Icons fixed on Server 2016 by moving port 8001 to listen to localhost only.

V2.84 
Search local or remote grids is now a global setting. Global is still being edited, as it has no grid info yet.
Paging, search, sort by columns in Search Objects.
Events re-added by a pull from Outworldz e very hour and on startup

V 2.83
Apache 2.4 and PHP 5 added - may be enabled by a new switch in Web Control panel. You can run HTML and JavaScript with it or host your own Port 80 Web pages, assuming your ISP allows port 80.
Hypergrid.org's "MetroMap" (large and small) added to the url http:://(grid):80/Metromap and to the Wifi Home Screen.
You can run 3rd party programs such as PhpMyAdmin, Strawberry Perl and other CGI programs by adding the application.  
Perl examples for Template::Toolkit and DBIX::Class to manipulate the database are included in the Apache\htdocs\PerlExamples folder.
PHP Examples are in the Apache\htdocs\Search folder for Classifieds, Logging, Dumping Objects, Parcels, Regions, and Hosts.
Objects and regions marked as 'Show in Search' are Searchable in the Viewer (Ctrl-F in Firestorm). Requires Apache and PHP Switch to be enabled in Web Pages. Classifieds do not work yet.
Load OAR defaults to all options off.
New Auto-Restart on Crash switch enabled by default.
New Auto-Restart on Bulletsim Crash.
Memory leak plugged 
Sort order sorted for X,Y and RAM in Region Panel by adding leading zeros.
Faster startup started faster by skipping phase II settings unless you have edited something.
Predefined Colored logs
Enable these colored logs by selecting Save on Exit option 'To File in Application Directory' 

2.82 
Disabling a region while shutting it down caused the Regions panel to not render.
Help always appeared for Load Oar 2X2
Added a PopUp for 1X1 so you can set more options.
Added back the View buttons to Regionlist and made them resize and re-position the list

2.81
Add Memory used for each region to Region panel
Add RAM graph
Add Avatar, CPU and RAM to front panel
Save width for Main Form

2.8 Release  

