REVISIONS FOR DREAMGRID

V5.194
Added a error collector that makes a Opensim.log file in Outworldzfiles\Logs.  This grabs any error lines in any region in real time.
Opensim 6 #7a710f09c0 fix llRequestInventoryData lm math

V5.193
Lots of tweaks to Backups. Background timer works.  
AppActivate() turns out to have been a mistake so focus is back to the original behavior.

V5.192
Default for Hybrid Physics was not set, could only be overwritten by region overrides.

V5.191
Fixed CheckAndRepair.bat to work with or without password.
Moved the Mysql check and backup SQL buttons to the Mysql Icon.
Change the CPU chart to show all CPUs time to match what Task Manager shows.
Backup all OARS fixes 

V5.19 
Tweaks to Mass loader so you have choices on Suspend modes and Sequential start modes. I strongly suggest Smart Boot mode (Not suspend) and Sequential on low RAM machines. 
If you have lots of RAM (32GB), SSDs and a fast CPU, you can go for parallel modes

V5.18
Stop Griefing:Added a button to Setup->Settings Regions to clear land flags for Rez and terrain = on. 
	If you have sandboxes, either set them back on or set up a group to control land and rez rights
No changes to Opensimulator.
Backups: Print Backup progress. Add an Abort button to stop them. Backups are not reentrant, as  only one can run at a time.  
	If you press backup while one is running, you can choose to abort it to start a new one. Only one backup will ever run at the same time.
Security: Allow adding a root password to Mysql and allow database passwords to be changed from the GUI. It used localhost for security before.
FsAssets: Export FsAssets runs one time at the hour mark. This moves asset blobs from mysql to file system for speed and de-duplication.
Mysql error on quit:  Wait longer for mysql to quit. 
View Console button sets the region timer to keep the region alive for 5 minutes.
Added Freeze All Regions and Thaw All Region menus items to Setup->Console Menu

V5.17
Clicking a region in the Region List toggles them all off/on if in a DOS box with other regions. The On/OFF is per DOS box, not per region.
Load OAR (web) refresh button refreshes all OAR/IAR data from Outworldz.com - there are 197 free OARS totaling 27.4 GB of OARS online.
Added an exclusive button in  Region List to show OARS and IARS that are exclusive to DreamGrid.  I've paid over $10K this year alone for OARs so I reserve the right to decide who gets to use them.
Region Ready in Opensim  had a bug where it would not always report a region is ready. This causes the checkbox icons to not show ready, on rare occasions which is bad for many functions. 
Fixed, and filed Mantis 9017 http://opensimulator.org/mantis/view.php?id=9016.
DeleteAll Temp regions was not attached to its event along with other buttons on the form, so they were not 'sticky'.
All AvatarName text boxes now autofill from database in various places.
Web OAR listings are prettier. You must agree to the Authors TOS to use them.
Added Test Button and detailed Error messages in Email setup.
Diva home page was not showing Smart Boot regions.

V5.16
Added Offline Email support.  Requires a working SMTP server in Setup-Email, and you must both enable it and enable Outside SMPT in the control panel.
Added a SMTP test button to SMTP Setup.
Minimize All DOS boxes Button in Settings->Consoles
FSassets are exported from assets table to bin\fsassets folder on disk at the 1 hour runtime mark. This improves Robust speed and will send compressed, de-duplicated assets directly to the viewer.

V5.15
Added a link in the Log Analyzer web page direct to any script with YEngine errors 
Added Sort buttons for OAR and IAR list, Sort by Name or Date, and search the Name, Author and the Text.
185 free regions! Older versions of DreamGrid cannot see two large "free house"" regions as they would crash.
PID was not stored in cache for Robust so it did not shut down when GUI is set to Auto close windows

V5.14
Fixed a bug where large OARS and IARS > 2 GB is size would crash the system. Older versions will no longer crash if a big one sneaks in due to a fix in the web site maker scripts.
Stop saving MAP-* images in Opensim\bin. They are just for debug.  Core leaves them on. I don't.
Long Delay in writing or saving regions is gone.
INI writer made into a class. In some error cases the old module could overwrite PHP.ini with Apache, breaking Joomla.
Rebuilt 36,500 unique translations in 30 languages.
Smart Start Enable would not un-check.
Robust would non minimize automatically.
Y axis when moving sims around in blockify function would accumulate the largest Y. Reset to be per Row.

V5.13
Speedier handling of checkbox events in Region list.  Speeds up Detailed view refresh a lot which can take a long time when there are hundreds of regions.
PH.ini was being corrupted on some machines. Old code in there that shared a variable. This could stop Jopensim/Joomla from running. Refactored it to a class to eliminate the common var.
Shutting down would cause regions to get a XML quit in a loop until they quit. 

V5.12
Region List switching from Details to Icon and back to Detailed would shut down all regions. Oops. New code to power off a disabled region had an unexpected side effect. Cat Tax paid on Mewe.

V5.11 Release 
Oops. I left some debug in, so restart regions did not work. 

V5.01 Post-release fixes
Diva (in Robust) exposed a Denial of Service attack vector that was fixed by Diva just this week. We've always had the fix since I first spotted and reported it a year ago. But the 4.999's didn't have it due to the new Opensim.
Ban list did not accept Mac addresses due to Upper Case bug
Grid users table was deleted at startup which led to side effects. Grid users delete deleted.
Region List now has a checkbox in Windows->Show On Boot.  If checked, the region list will appear on boot. if not, not. Default: Not.
Smart Boot screen changed a bit. Added another tab to make clear that the endless land and sea is not always  part of Smart Start.
If you are in a Smart Boot region, and set the pull down to 1, then the regions next to you will boot so you can walk there.  The larger the number the firther away a region will boot so you canm walk or see it. 
Added a "Blockify Regions" function to Settings->Regions. This lets you reorganize the entire list of regions into an alphabetical order grid, with a preferred spacing and a preferred width.
Moved and rebuilt the Bulk Region Loader to be much faster and more reliable. It is now in Regions.  It creates all 175 regions in a few seconds, then boots them and load them, with OARS. Itys restartable, too, so I you run it later, any newly published regions will appear.


V5.0
Push notification Release

V4.99993
Fixed the surround Sim features in Smart Boot. It would not always surround a region.
The surrounding regions will be powered on if you have Smart Start on and a region next to you is smart start enabled.  The number of regions is controlled by the size of the region surround setting on the same page.
Temp Regions are in the Estate SimSurround. 
Temp regions are deleted if you stop the grid or start it.
Flushes OARs to disk after they load with 'backup' command
Ban list is lower case MAC addresses, UPPER CASE does not work.
V4.99992
Ai Austin spotted that the default landing spot in Regions->Maps was blank which caused a error in Opensim to be printed. Default is set back to 128,128,30 which is core default setting.
David Monday reported that the Visitors list had him listed twice.  Old data in the table is now cleared if opensim is started from the beginning.
New regions will have parcels with Scripts, Terrain editing, and Build off to help stop griefers. Scripts may go back on by default based on a survey this week. This has no effect on existing regions.
Viewing the region console with the region popup "View Console"" sets the shutdown timer to 5 minutes to give you more time.
MySQL now enables "innodb_doublewrite" buffer for better crash recovery. If Mysql is running as a service on a UPS/Generator, it is disabled for performance. 
MySQL RAM use is also limited to 1 or 2 GB based on many calculated factors. 

V4.99991
Manuals:  Added more help to the troubleshooting guide.
Windows:  SetWindowText(myhandle, windowName) is horrifically unreliable. Added a better retry loop with longer waits. 		  
Bans: Read ban list at boot instead of waiting until you start, otherwise you might think it was gone.
Region Editor: Added a editable default per region where people land. <128,1128,35> is the usual default
Opensim: PhysicalPrimMax was getting the PhysicalPrimMin, then getting overwritten. Filed a Mantis and it was fixed.
		AllowTeleportsToAnyRegion is broken in Opensim. This was what broke Hypergrid. Disabled it and HG works again. Its supposed to send all traffic to the Welcome region. Instead you get a protocol error.
		Deregister regions and people when booting when no Opensims are running and in Grid mode.
Region List: Exporting the region list left out the parcel permissions column.
		     Region list shifted left a column at boot if Mysql was off.
			 The HG visitors show up again.
Security: Updated SSH.net due to a required security patch, spotted by CIM/Github.
Sequential Pause: Retry loop fixes when starting regions one at a time.

V4.9999
Back to Opensim 0.9.2.2  eee11f5d5 ("Opensim Core d6760ec0ef ("a few changes for mantis 9006 attachment moveToTarget()"", 2022-05-29)
The only thing not working is Smart Start.  This is because of changes inside Opensim 0.9.2.2
Changing the Opensimworld Key immediately updates their web site.


V4.998
Visitors not always showing in Log on home page.
Text in some DOS boxes not sticking. Windows API is very unreliable. Added loop where it must be and written  and read back 3 times.
Dropped reporting of scripts in the Estate report in the region List. Not much of a security risk and prevents HUDS from running.
Web Oars carry info on their size. If too large to fit a region, the loader now aborts with an error message.
There was a problem loading Web OARs where the name was not typed. Fixed. 

V4.997
Background and User Initiated OAR and IAR backups wait for each OAR or IAR to save sequentially.  The Smart regions will stay alive until the region finishes.
Load oar did not always change to the proper region - affected only multi-region DOS boxes.
Region List now shows parcel names in all regions that have rez, script or terrain edit enabled.  You should disable these to stop griefing.
Glitch in Smart Start caused difficulties in logging in.  
All regions except Default are now set to persistent so you can enable Smart Start on a region without needed to restart Robust.
Speech when avatar arrives or leaves only ran once, but should have been continuously. 
DNS password error would occur multiple times- pops up an alerts only once now.
Hyperlinks in Screen text are clickable.
Grid settings and IPs print at end of boot to make them more visible.
NBow refreshes Region list as people move around.  And it detects Hypergrid visitors again.

V4.996 
Dev Master 0.9.2.2 Opensim #4f7b293c5efe69af0180f  as of 5/1/2022.
Clicking Teleport button in Region Pop is using hop:// syntax, which works better.
Suppress notice on Smart Start Suspend mode and speed up Region Thaw by a second.
Mysql innodb buffer pool set  to auto size from .5 to 4 GB. It was too aggressive in its growth before.
Test the internal webserver at bootup and every 5 minutes.
Test Loopback at Bootup.
Use Robust.HG.ini.Proto better to make it easier to add mods.
Fixed Diva, Inventory, IAR and other missing items in 0.9.2.2. ports that happened after V4.992.


V4.995 
Clicking View Console on a Smart Suspend region would resume but stop too soon. Now it stays resumed for 5 minutes.

V4.994
Fixes to Smart Boot for the latest Opensim so you can login directly to a Smart region.
More translations added (35,170 total).The tool I use (ResxManager) is very intermittent so this is a slow, frustrating process. I've filed a bug report with the developer.
Some string to double conversions would fail in languages that use a comma for a decimal point. This could cause updates to act up. Using Convert.toDouble(X,cultureinfo.invariant) so it works for all languages
Lots more tool tips.
Help for Compiling and Email added.
Robust would not be sensed as started if your loopback/Port forwards do not work.  For grids this now checks the LAN address. For all other types it checks the Public WAN address.
Clear cache now clears the YEngine cache.

V4.993
Opensim #b7ed5f109ec9b28 prebuild for .net6, disable.
Add all the options for SMTP Email and TLS/SSL to a new Button in Settings.
Drop clouds as they no longer work in EEP.
Fixed Diva Web Panel as the dlls got excluded in an earlier build.

V4.992
Updated all 30 translations.  Currently at about 33,960 translations
All/None button in region panel fixes.
How to Compile manual for merging new Opensim code so it will compile with all Diva and Smart Start functions.
Recompiled Opensim so comments match upcoming V5 Opensim dev/master, in prep for dev master (Released) Opensim for V5.

V4.991 
V4.99 Fixed for Apache SSL where it would not start if SSL was enabled.

V4.99
Prep for V5
Add button to Updater to reinstall dependencies such as Dot Net or Perl and its modules.
Add SSL capability to SMTP for email. GMail is quitting on us so you will need to use a company such as PObox.com
Add Search Help
Add decrapify button for Satyr Farm leftovers that removes excess buckets and water
Manual for Text to Speech API

V4.98
Added a Search Help files feature to the Help pull down and updated some of the Help files.
Supports wild card operators such as *, ? to match any character, [abc] to match any single character in the list,
# for any single digit (09), [!charlist] matches any single character not in charlist
Eliminated a crash in the Region Form when you clicked Add region a second time


V4.97
Only thaw frozen windows (small performance tweak)
Only shutdown regions that need shutdown (small performance tweak)
Delete robust database texture maps per mantis. (I had over 8,000)
Add many language translations -33,900 total to be exact

V4.96
Sped up background processing to use less CPU time
Added a Delete a region maps
Total Ram used by regions is shown in Region at the top
icon for Opensim was incorrect


V4.95
Smart Start Freeze/Thaw mode activated. Smart Boot regions stay in RAM but do not use any CPU. Just like a laptops Sleep mode, versus Hibernate.  
They start almost instantly. You can exceed memory limits with an SSD as the get swapped to disk.  Add an ice cube icon for the above state.
Updated all manuals including the big PDF. 
Suppress two Opensim warnings by moving them to debug level. 
Small glitch in Smart Start Sign - disabled SS regions still appeared.
Could not reopen Settings form.
Do not deregister a region when saved and its running.
Shutdown regions in Alphabetical order.


V4.94
Manuals on Web site did not match style the builder now makes then match the style and word-for word fir each release.

V4.93 some fixes got left out of 4.92 
Whisper distance showed up as blank
Yet another Region port bug is fixed. This could cause large numbers of region ports to be used and possible region crashes.
SQL backups when the system is not booted would do nothing.  It now starts Mysql when run.
Crash counter:  if you have it set to Restart on crash, 5 crashes will just turn it off.

V4.92
Bug in region backups caused the region ini to be skipped. Please run a backup.
Sequential boot and Parallel Boot gets a new type: No Limits. Sequential still waits up to 5 minutes for a region to start, then boots the next. Parallel waits on 90<% CPU or <90% RAM. No limits is a let-it-rip mode for Smart Boot. They load into RAM and get swapped to disk. 
Consoles will pop up less often. Just once when it does a command you may be interested in.
Language form is resizable
Settings form is resizable
SSL mode now has a certificate for Let’s Encrypt that was missing. This verifies that your Domain and the Lets Encrypt certs are genuine.
All Perl examples have been updated.  Some of them only run on localhost for security.
OsGrid mode was broken. Could not add the IP address in Ports. No longer need to add them.
If you ran two grids on a server at the same time, the second one to start would erase a firewall setting the other needed.  
Missing "" in a Load OAR would prevent oars with spaces from loading.

V4.91
There is a new "double size" teleport sign in the Local IAR that supports 64 regions. It and the Single wide can support more than the 16536-character limit in HTTP I run into with 170 regions.  Just change the Description from 0, to 1, 2, etc.

V4.9 
Uses the Welcome region for saving IARS instead of TEMP region

V4.899
Allow Land sales for $0 to a specific person or any amount to anyone. Fake money.  Gloebit can be used for real money.
Use the Welcome region for saving IARS. Helps with Smart Boot and Smart Suspend modes, which are a part of V5
Region folders were not being zipped up in Backups when they were selected.

V4.898
Prevent a crash in DreamGrid if the Regions folder is missing. 
MetroMap (map.php) was missing the first cell.  It moved around based on the screen view.  $xx was not defined. An undefined variable is null, so if you use array($xx), instead of the 0th index, you gets the 'null'th place. which should be to 0th, but noooooo.  Thanks for the tip and the fix, awss!
Firewall is now open for port 443 for SSL. You need to port forward 443 in your router to use SSL!

V4.897
SSL fixes - moved the folder to Outworldzfiles\SSL, added tests for Apache is running, and on port 80.
If Apache Port 80 is not forwarded, some brain-dead routers do not loop it back. Local Search may then be broken. Search now uses LAN IP instead of Localhost.
Should not be able to edit the UUID in EditUser form    
Add tests for fail to unlink files to Perl Builder

V4.896
A patch for avatars not showing on the Regions->Avatars screen.  You can search in the avatar names and email addresses now.
SSL certificates for Apache added to Settings.  See SSL in Help or click SSL in Settings. You must be running Apache on Port 80 for this to work!
Added a dynamically adjusting innodb_buffer_pool_size to Mysql. Starts at 1 GB and increases as needed. Used only on very large grids.
fsassets form always prompted you to save even when nothing changed

V4.895
You can click any user in the Region Panel “Users” section and edit the details.  You can change a user name, change God level and give them a title.

V4.894
Memory Leak in Text 2 Speech. Oops! I was creating a Speech class every second. Would have seen it earlier but my grid has been down for an entire week.
Added an API for Chat To Speech.
Added a Form for you to create arbitrary Text 2 Speech.  The wav files can be uploaded and played in world, or you can use the mP3 files directly in world using Media On A Prim.  More documentation and a sample script are in the works.
Boot sequence of regions is back in alphabetical order.
Lots of small tweaks to loading INI files to detect or prevent potential crashes.
Remove useless Apache Icons.
Speedups for slow PC’s by not scanning as fast. You will likely notice the graphs update only every 5 seconds. 
Clicking Apache or Icecast start buttons enables them, then boots.
OsGrid HTTP port 80 was not set. It printed wrong, otherwise this was harmless.
I expose the until-now-in-debug-mode-only button, because the system looks like it has a missing tooth without it. This button will remain disabled until I finish it. It runs only in Visual Studio.  
Security is important! This will add a free SSL certificate to Opensim and Apache/jOpensim.
FsAssets textbox did not save if you copied/pasted a path.
Several crash fixes if you blanked out an integer text field.

V4.893
Backups Run sequentially to be nicer to CPU and MySQL. Status shows in the console, and if you attempt to stop the system before it is done, it must bitch or it will explode, like Donna, my purchasing agent at work.  
Added test for jOpensim db and back it up if it exists.
The baretail logger program did not gracefully handle paths with spaces in them.
Prettify the Nav bars in the Web site.  
Region screen checkbox for all or none was flipped. 
Remove Gloebit Sandbox, 
Deep stuff: Perl DBIX::Class schema updated. This is a no-SQL interface to MySQL.
Glitch in Backups for SQL Backup types - did not do the Robust correctly. System will make a new set if SQL backups when it boots
V4.892 has an older Mysql in it - it has been removed.
Lots of small performance tweaks to reduce CPU use by DreamGrid GUI


V4.892
Saving and loading OARS to a Smart Boot region could time out and shut down before the Load or save finished.
Kudos to richard dennis https://mewe.com/i/richarddennis14

V4.891
Saving and loading OARS to a Smart Boot region could time out and shut down before the Load or save finished.
Welcome region selector is sorted by name again. It was scrambled because the sorted list changed to an unsorted dictionary. 
Region list for avatars shows the type of visitor again – HG or Local. 
If you add a region then close the form, it would not open again. And it saved a blank-named region. Now it prompts to save, and if you say no, it’s tossed.
If MySQL is off, it could take much longer to see the Region List. Test for MySQL, once and skip using it if offline.  Prims and estate cannot be because the db is offline.
Added more extensive TTS capability to the Regions Setting. 
Thanxxx for the tips! @richard dennis https://mewe.com/i/richarddennis14

V4.89
This is the release candidate for 4.9, which is a full release, meaning it will tell you that it needs to update. 
Visitor Maps are finally working as expected.  Changed the colors to be brighter and fixed the swapped X and Y axis.
Reduced CPU use in a key function by 80%.
Alpha code for SSL/TLS finally works. The problem was a Byte Order Mark in the ACME challenge.  This will eventually make a free SLL certificate, download it, and install it with no user intervention.  It secures Apache, WordPress, Joomla and Opensim and also automatically renews it. This is prep work for V5.


V4.88
Smart Start had mysteries galore in avatar detection. So you may have gotten kicked out of local or a HG visitor. Replaced the functions with a more reliable method of querying the db.
Update detection is improved.  Detect new Beta and Released versions and show the button for each type - Update to released, update to Beta, or reinstall the existing version.
Smart Start sent people to Welcome. Should have been ParkingLot. If no parking lot is set, send them to Welcome.
The Diva Web page did not show the correct Login URI.   The PublicIP had not yet been set. 

V4.87
Added better directions and modified the update button in the Help-Update form to explain what update is available.

V4.86
The web links for Load IAR and Load OAR used https protocol, which Opensim cannot support at this time.
A help menu item was suppressed for Show Region Stats. The stats work if Welcome is running. 
Suppress a crash due to a faulty image.
Allow a new region to boot even if made while running.

V4.85
Fixes for a crash and a compiler issue with a 3rd party tool in 4.84.  Saved back into 4.84 so is the same as the 4.84 zip now.

V4.84
Updated Apache to 2.4.52-64 bit.
Tweaks to maps and menus in the web server.
Sometimes the Visitor Maps language Perl, does not load/work for unknown reasons.  It could be a conflict with Git coming first in the system path.  To help troubleshoot this, a batch file “InstallPerlModules.bat” has been added to MSFT_Runtimes folder to re-install the necessary Perl modules. These modules should auto install on first boot, but may take s seco9nd boot to load.  There is no need to run this batch file if Visitor Maps work. See http://www.outworldz.com:8000/Stats/ to get an idea of how these Visitor Stats work.
Hyperica.com is gone. I purchased this domain and web site from Maria at Hypergrid Business some years ago to make a map of the Opensimulator World. The functions it used to run have all been moved into Outworldz.com.  These include Global Search and the web crawler that indexes the world.   

V4.83
Added my To Do list to the Help files.
Log4Net would sometimes not work due to conflicts with Opensim loading when the Opensim.exe.config file was written. Fixed by loading it only at boot. 
Did a speedup for full-sized Visitor Maps. Maps saved as PNG, instead of JPG in Apache\Stats\Maps. 
Free disk space calc was incorrect, but the display was correct.  If disk space gets < 1M bytes, any Opensim processes will freeze.  If you free up disk space, they will unsuspend.
TOS pages did not work as expected.  They also have a better look that matches the B&W themes.
The subsystem for event handling and processing of Bootups, backups, loading of OARS, and making the 160 region block has been rewritten and is much more efficient/reliable. Ditto for trees and plants modules.
There are 158 free regions now due to some de-duplication. All of them have been renamed by dropping Authors name. The credits are both in DreamGrid and in the menu system.
Fixed up the JavaScript maps to be centered.  These are in Setting->Maps.
Visitor maps are accurate for placement of the avatars with larger symbols and better color choices.
Added a Backup All IARs to the AutoBackup system.  This will FILL YOUR HARD DISK if you have a large grid.  Default is OFF. It may be wiser to run this manually in the Content menu.
Text to Speech supports Ad-hoc speech to Wav and Mp3 files.  This is currently a Help->Debug option. You add lines of text to the debug window, set the switch to True, and select Text to Speech in the Pulldown.   The files will appear in Apache\htdocs\Stats\TTS as 44.1Khz stereo wav files that can be uploaded, and as MP3 files that can be streamed into Opensim via MOAP.  F:Hello will say hello in a female voice, and M:Goodbye will say Goodbye in a male voice.  See Help->Debug for instructions.
Endless Land and Sea is still disabled for more testing. It will be back.

V4.82
Avatars never left DreamGrid so you got prompted when quitting that people are in world.
Visitor Map date was not sticky, so if you submitted a date it was reset back to today -90 days.
Endless land and sea is offline for testing. 
Detects updates to Windows 11 and reloads Dot Net on boot.
Experimental Text to Speech correctly saved wave files for Act V, Scene III of Antony and Cleopatra.
New method to make region restart. Used to backup OARS and do other things in Land Builder that have to occur in the future.
Added "Backup All IARS" to the Backup menu.  This can take up an ENORMOUS amount of space.
Added my To Do list to the Help menu
Fixed an issue that sped up detection of running process
HG Visitors would show up in a region by a UUID instead of a name
Many small Visitor map tweaks so the map image lies more closely on the dots.
The Javascript map is centered.  You can get to this in the Settings->Maps. 
Visitor Maps can be made public. Default = private, http://127.0.0.1/Stats only
Visitor Maps have a search box. I have nearly 200 maps, and it took forever to scroll.
Added a blank map for missing Visitor maps.   You need a set of tiled maps, as the visitor map is made from the small tiles.

V4.81
Developer version never released
V4.81
Added “To Do List.pdf” to help. It’s a PDF of things To do. It is currently not going to make much sense to you as it was intended for my eyes only. I’ll add more detail to it as I go.  This goes back 62 pages in time.	

Text To Speech has the ability to make Male and Female Wav files you can play in Opensim. See Help-Debug for now.  These files appear in the web server so can be played with media on a prim.  Lots of plans for this, none written down.  It uses the Microsoft Zira and David voices for now.Or whatever it thinks is the male or female on Win 7.  You cannot use this on Contabo or most servers as they have no sound card.
V4.8
Fixed the "extra welcome region" bug.  Obvious bug was not obvious. But cannot be unseen once seen.
Default Welcome region cannot be Smart Boot enabled.
Help normally loads once the first time you view each page. 
You can now export the Region list to a CSV list for use in Excel or Google Sheets.
Many performance tweaks, too many to mention. Startup of the app should be 2X faster.
V4.79
Visitor maps: Now uses any database setting, not just the default.  Default date for visitor maps set to previous 90 days. Also the maps have a Public or Private  setting. Default is private, or Localhost-only.
DNS will attempt to contact up to 4 DNS servers.
OpensimWorld went offline as they added more security. Added X-SecondLife-Object-Name fir future use, and they turned off the extra security.  OpensimWorld key would not show the saved value.
1st boot of icecast did not show a green Icon.
V4.78 
Logs will be saved with a Date/time stamp.  Disable this in Settings->logs if you prefer the original no timestamp method.
Added a link to Google Map in Help. This map has nice images, but doesn't cover much area. It centers on your Welcome Region.
Now that its the first of the month,  I set the Visitor maps show the last 30 days by default, instead of from the 1st of the month. doh
The Visitor maps now default to 365 day storage instead of 90 days. It is safe for you to change the setting (Setup-Settings->Maps, on the right side). Opensimmers can set this number of days to very large, as we have few people.
On SL, you can get 500 visitors a day and this fills up Mysql disk space as it adds a record per person per minute.
You should notice a speed speedup from clicking Start to boot of regions.  
In Opensim, changed region Smart Start code so it is identical to robust code, thanks to Ubit Umarov.
Terrains:  2X2 and larger terrains save in their own folder so Region Building will not mess up with wrong size of terrain.
Regenerate all terrains goes over the library and re-saves the textures.  It starts with .r32, then tries raw, Terragen, and then PNG to get the highest possible resolution saved in Opensim\bin\terrains. 

Many issues remain with endless land and sea:
 Still only works on 1X1 regions. (uncoded)
 Can cause port conflicts. (long running difficult to fix bug)
 Trees and plant cluster around the center of the sim (Opensim bug, this module is very old)

V4.77
Logging into "parked" Smart Boot regions was formerly impossible, except via Hypergrid.  Local users could not log in except to an online regions. This is now fixed.

V4.76
Visitor Map fixes:
	The visitor maps did not work when the database settings were not default.  This requires some additional Perl modules which will install automatically when you update.
	New Perl modules are Config::IniFiles and File::BOM
	Visitor counts were always zero in the Region List.
	Reorganized Map maker to make the region map for VIsitors Mapping when the first visitor arrives in a region.
	Visitor maps with no start date show from the first day of the month to the current date.
	Added a back button 
	Floats added to list maps for compactness.
V4.75
Announce in voice Avatars that leave
Fixed a bug in Visitor maps lists where some visitors may not be counted
Tell Smart Start avatars when region is almost ready
Allow both http:// and https:// URLS in the splash screen
V4.74
A missing me.show in Load OAR and Load IAR made it impossible to load web OAR and IAR content. Oops.
Added better messages for Smart Start region booting.
It is possible to try to teleport to a disabled Smart Start Region.  Now you get a message the region is disabled.
Authenticode digital signature from Digicert RSA4096/SHA384 updated for 2022. 
The Outworldz digital certificate signs the DLLS and EXE files. Microsoft learns to trust code that is signed.
This ensures this software is compiled and came from me, and no one else. It protects software from alteration after publication.
Only use code you trust!
V4.73
Possible crash if Avatar name is mangled in Smart Start.
Add auto-incrementing Assembly Version and Date of build to crash dumps.
V4.72
Slight tweak to Perl installer to handle if a fatal Perl launch error occurs.
Region Name missing from Visitor Maps.
V4.71
Changed Perl so it can be relocated off C drive.
Clear Cache does not delete YEngine script cache, thus retaining YEngine state.
Fix Map.htm hover data point to show proper coordinates for each minute.
V4.7
Fixes to Visitor Maps. Was not following people around.
Remove remote admin message from Debug Menu.
Moar Help.
Detect Mysql not shutting down and retry.
Six more translations
V4.69 
Adding a visitor map to Setup->Map. This requires you to install Strawberry Perl which it will prompt on first boot.
V4.68
Oops - left out a line of code if you overrode a region Script engine in a region. It left scripts off.
V4.67
Allow scripts to be disabled globally or per region for troubleshooting
Add normal boot time and Map boot times to region list.
Added a "Are You Sure?" message when you try to quit.
Editing a map in a specific region did not change the preview image, or show the default.
Replaced the troublesome Oracle Mysql driver with a 3rd party driver. The oracle driver would often report an unmanaged code crash 'connection already open', when it clearly was not.
V4.66 BETA
Added a Save All IAR background task. Choose a region, click Start. It will save each IAR for all users one at a time using that region.
V4.65 BETA
Environment.processorcount now used to set initial core counts- minor fix to suppress a try catch
VisitorCount could fail to count local visitors. 
Set focus to Region name on form load
Set SafeShutdown flag if no Opensim processes detected so ports get renumbered
Changing physics tab in Regions did not trigger a save warning if panel was closed
V4.64 BETA
Logging reports (Setup->Setting->Logging->{Analyze Logs] are styled better and report YEngine script errors now
Added a 1 second sleep after typed commands before potentially closing windows for readability
V4.63 BETA
Read and print Mysql Version that we are connected to.
Suppressed a possible crash in visitor counter. Something is fucky in Mysql connections to Robust.
Removed Robust restart when Smart start settings are changed. 
V4.62 BETA
Old Bug: Region re-normalize puts the selected region at 1000,1000 and moves the rest to match was just not working right at all. This is used by the original Javascript map. 
Fix glitches in Port renumbering. Reworked refresh button to re-fetch the ports from INI files.
Region Estates not always showing in Region list.
Setting Wifi Password prompted for password length too often and the Robust box did not close in some situations.
V4.61 BETA 
Added a Chat to Speech announcer to the Settings->Region. When enabled, this announces 
in a male or female voice arrivals and departures. It does not depend upon Concierge module which announces in-world in chat.
V4.6 GENERAL RELEASE
Could not restore from a .sql backup. A typo added a space in a file path.
V4.58
Lots of small tweaks to UI to improve performance.
Link set: Max number of prims increased to 1024.
Chat to Speech: Added a Speech class for the future Chat to Speech system. Will also be adding a translator. 
Bug: Surrounding sims would start with nearby visitor when SS was disabled.
Bump connections to Mysql in my.ini for large grids like mine.
Added three more free OARS. 2 adult and an older prim-based region.
V4.57 
Git is Rev V4 so it's `git checkout V4`. My code is mostly written in Visual Basic and anyone can compile it for free.
Opensim is now same as core as of 7/31/2021. Rev is "#d0e41f747b9054 there should be no need..."
Many more translations to all 30 languages.
jOpensimProfiles.dll was not being deleted at startup, even if Joomla/jOpensim was off. Is now deleted from the Zip, and is deleted by code if jOpenaim is off on startup. 
 This is necessary as Opensim stupidly loads all DLLs it finds - a big security issue to say the least! have always removed any DLLs that a hacker could insert 
 as DreamGrid maintains its own curated list of allowed DLL's. But this one was allowed as it is needed for jOpensim. Catch-22, but its fixed in code so any slip-ups 
 like this will not happen again.
Estate name: not always showing in Region List. They will not show if MySQL is off, otherwise they will.
Smart Start: Neighbor regions would not always start when an avatar was present in the center. This is a standard feature so you can walk to the next sim. It follows the sim surround rules of 1,2, or 3 rings.
Events: seems to sometimes hang as its Http. And can take more time that should not be interfering with the main thread. Its been moved to a new thread.
Jopensim: Kickstart added back into the installer. Also a rev file added to show or suppress the you need to update screen.
Crash fix: Windows caching could cause a crash when renaming a file during INI file checks. The Crash report I added a while back has worked beautifully and thanks to the you folks, the reporters, 39 sneaky bugs have been fixed.
Changes to Diva settings causes robust to restart, if running, as it should.
V4.56
Search in Region list in non-English Languages blanked out all regions. As "Search" <> "Suche". Fixed.
Cleanup and reorganize by running it through the CodeMaid extension
Opensim recompiled to not spam the bin region with Map-* maptiles which are just for debug.

V4.5
Important Fix for Default Hypergrid region - made it hard to visit a HG System!
Several potential crashes fixed in OpensimWorld and other places.

V4.54
Smart Boot Regions would shut down too soon. It poked their timer with a UUID instead of by name when an avatar was in it.
Setting a Region to Smart Boot would not take until Robust (or the grid) was restarted. Robust will now restart if you set the SS switch.
AutoBackup view folder added, and also set the initial place for thew backups to Autobackup.

V4.53
You can Search just your grid if you run Apache. You can also choose no Search, or DreamGrid's Hyperica search (DreamGrid-wide search, works without needing Apache). if Apache is enabled, you can use jOpensim search.

Allow 16-bit 64K global placement of regions again. It was changed to 16K in Smart Start. Placement above 16K or 32K may lead to issues.

V4.52
New grid only - Initial startup timing issue in Process.PID could cause the Robust to not capture the grid owner name.
Deleting a region now deletes the regions map tiles.
Added a check so you cannot delete a running region. 
Multiple sims per dos box could cause a port clash.
De-registering regions with MySQL instead of typing for efficiency/less error prone.
System would not delete a region. Run time problem where an undefined RegionName was confused with a control by the same name.
Shutdown Timer for Smart Boot did not consider the boot time leading to a too early an exit on slow regions. 
Smart Boot regions that are next door to an Avatar will boot up so you can cross borders. 
Increased timeout from 10 to 60 seconds on Robust while waiting for process ID for slow PC's.
There was no help menu in Load IAR and Load OAR forms.
Help Once function was not working. This pops up Help when you first look at a control. It Just opened and closed.
The count of regions on the Diva home page did not include Smart Boot enabled regions.


V4.51 removed due to an issue with multiple sims per DOS box.

V4.5 
Possible crash if you delete a .bak file for Baretail. It's needed.
HelpOnce function was exiting immediately.
CHange default image for web pages.
Aborting the webserver thread could lead to a crash when debugging.

V4.46
Added start/stop/Delete Service controls to Mysql Icon.
Added Process Priority To Each Region. 
Added CPU affinity for each Region

V4.45
Map security was lacking. Fixed in core Opensim.
Firestorm Beta fixes along with at least 100 more Opensim repairs by Ubit Umarov.

V4.44
Two more filters for regions: a Stopped and a Running filter
Two new free OARs. A dragon riding sim, and a Gateway to Africa, our Virunga sim.
Nooblets get the region list Pop Up.
Sped up detection of offline Robust to speed up shutdown by 59.5 seconds. 

V4.43
Reworked the port mapping to better handle adding or deleting regions while running. It detects safe shutdowns so it will reclaim/recycle ports from 8004 upward.
If running, it always adds a port to the end. Restarting will reuse the ports that are in the region files.
SmartStart: Added a settable number of seconds for regions to stabilize after boot before launching the teleport. This lest you tune the length of time to let the region stabilize.
Running more than one grid on a server would improperly detect all running regions during shutdown and so would never shut down.
Explicit version message of VersionIS==> WillBe when prompted to update. As in 4.3 ==> 4.4
Opensim world shows the avatars + NPCs, instead of the avatars. Oops. The RPC call admin_get_agent_count command is basically an antique. I added a admin_get_avatar_count.


V.42 INTERNAL ALPHA TEST

V4.41
Finally fixed the crash in some machines since 4.03. Its timing in thread exits.
Crash report # 234345360: a crash could happen when restarting if two processes are using the PID file.
Expires files by age did not apply to all files in AutoBackup. 

V4.4 
Fixed a crash in Diva Panel when missing the Photo.
Prevent possible crash if no region is selected after starting to create one.
Use running Ports from INI if Opensim is running.
RegionList limited to one form.
RegionList Search box.
RegionList check boxes for All, Smart On, and Disabled
Save Size of the graphs
Add counts of Smart Boot to Region list title

V4.3-4.2 ALPHA TESTS

V4.1 Performance Tweaks to Mysql and Smart Start
Fixed a crash in Diva web pages where a URL could (and did) crash robust.

V4.04 PERFORMANCE TWEAKS TO MYSQL AND SMART START

Partner Control Panel Is now Rev 4.1 now has a pretty look and works in both XEngine and YEngine.
This is a new Beta for Smart Start. The Smart Start Button in "Settings" is now enabled.	
OpensimWorld Beacons now get pinged when in Smart Start Mode and a region is powered down.
The region count on the Diva Home Page adds in the number of ready-to-run Smart Start Regions. 
All teleport types, HG and local work with one exception: Login to an offline region
There is a new V4.1 Teleport Sign in Load Local IAR. This is just an ordinary sign, much like V2.5, except it does not check to see if a region is online.
	
Some Smart Boot features are missing:	
	You cannot log into a powered-off region. Go to your Welcome region or Home, and set home to a region that is always on.
	Regions next to you should be powered on so you can walk or fly to them. They do not. This works in Smart Surround.
	Run All Start buttons: An unregistered Smart Start Region will boot when you click Run All or Start. But a registered region is not be bootable from the GUI except by deregistering it or manually clicking it and selecting it from the Regions panel.

MySQL now supports running as a service. You should only enable this if your server is in a data center on a UPS with a generator backup, or if you have a UPS with a cord that shuts down the PC before the battery is dead.
Running as a service also relaxes the strict ACID settings in DreamGrid to allow buffering of writes to disk. 
Also increased the log size from 10MB to 100MB for performance which may make recovery from a crash take a bit longer.


V4.03
Added Arabic, Spanish (Spain), Persian, Brazilian and Portuguese languages and translated all Smart Start menus.
Smart Start button would not stick.
Welcome region has been missing a setting for Fallback region
Rare crash if the PID file was being read and written at the same time.
Force Viewers that are in range to update when a region is ready.
Region Builder knows how to set estate without typing.
Added a RPC enable login to force Opensim to accept teleports when it says its ready but is really only mostly ready.

V4.02 5-23-2021 
Fixes to Smart Start, signs, and some UI performance improvements 
Thankxx to Richard Dennis, who reported that adding a Region from the Setup->Settings->Region-[Add] button would always create an extra "New Region". 
Robust could start and would lie about being ready and this could cause a crash when a region boots too early when the database was still being generated.
Opensim would still jab the API in some cases even if global SS was disabled. 
API now requires the Machine ID as a password.
SS created regions have the Teleport sign bit enabled.
Large grids develop a long and longer "stutter" when starting up due to some expensive tasks that ran every 5 seconds. The system would fall further and further behind, which required interlock code to prevent recursion. Moved two subs to their own low priority threads which speeds up other critical tasks such as teleports shutdowns and bootups by 5X to 20X or more. 
	CPUCalc() gathers the CPU percentages to display only when the Region list is displayed. It's not time critical. This was a massive CPU time killer when I run hundreds of regions - even on a fast machine it delayed things by 30 seconds or more when 180 regions are running . 
	DidItDie() scans for exiting processes. It has to do an expensive system call on all regions over and over. It's not time critical and can take its time as a separate thread.
By default, OpenSimulator does not allow scripts to make HTTP calls to addresses on the simulator's LAN. This is for your LAN's security and your safety. An adjustment to this in 4.01 prevented some teleport signs from working. 
Added more "allows" to the list of LSL destinations. These are the only LAN Addresses that scripts can reach.

	localhost:DiagnosticPort	http://(loopback via DNS)(8001) 
	127.0.0.1:DiagnosticPort	http://(loopback IP)(8001)
	LANIP.DiagnosticPort		http://(PC LAN IP):(8001)
	LANIP:HttpPort				http://(PC LAN IP):(80)
	PublicIP:HttpPort			http://(PC WAN IP or DNS Name):(80) in case a loopback adapter is involved

V4.01 MAINTENANCE
Just some tweaks, no need to update unless you are a Smart Start Alpha tester.
Slower machines on first install may miss the Create User dialog. Added a Information MNsgBox in all 30 languages to wait for Robust to finish updating.
Smart Start has several fixes:
	A sign V4.0 is in the Local IAR folder. This suppresses an error and supports
	ESTATE, NAME and GROUP sorting. It also works on 127.0.0.1:8001.
	All you need to do is add the password,
	The "Welcome to Smart Start" Free OAR has the new signs in it.
	The Help-Debug section has a test setup to teleport any avatar to any region.
	Added a Mysql check of the region status (0x4=online) before initiating a teleport.
Added a Mysql Console menu in the main form under the Mysql Menu.

V4.0 RELEASE
This update will notify you its time to update.
Added sortable columns for User Age in days, Birth date, count of inventory items, and User level to User Screen

V.392
Map Render Max Height could be set to some numbers. 
X translated as Y, doh!
Enable script function lsSetWindlightScene so scripted EEP should work. This script function is restricted to the region owner only.
Added a Force Update to Help Menu so you can get updates on demand instead of waiting for a release.
All manuals updated, including the big PDF.

V3.931
Icecast did not redirect to the /status.xsl home page. An <Alias=..> got wildcarded in, should be <alias= ..>
Icecast updated to latest 2.4.4

V3.93
If you click the Run Backups Now button, all Running region OARS will be saved right then. Previously, all OARS were only saved by Opensim after so many hours of run time.
Wifi-Custom Web pages make themselves from White theme on first click.
Fixed rare crash in WindowHandler.
Updated Manuals from Diva to License in alphabetical order. 

V3.929
Fixes an issue where you could only make 1X1 regions.
If you tried to teleport into a Smart Boot-enabled region, it shut down as soon as it booted.

V3.928
Right click and editing a running region would lead to an instant crash. Thankxx to a tip from Luna Dreamweaver.
The fix for this also fixes an issue where the region could not be started if the Set Window Title function did not work. And this is a very unreliable function.
Also a less error prone method for detecting how many regions are still running when quitting the system.
MAC address 469947894f9e298a7726b4a58ff7bf9f cannot be banned. This is a Windows Loopback Adapter. A note is appended if you try it.


V3.927
False start on V3.926: The OpensimWorld Beacon did not post the region Name - Fixed
It also always deleted scripts on startup due to an extra space. - Fixed

V3.926 
Git is on V3 branch now.
Reworked the Region Editor to have better help, tabs and manuals.
OpensimWorld Beacon API Key can be put in the Region Settings. Makes it easy for me to add to all my regions, and still give them away without spreading my keys around.
Both type of signs work in Smart Start cases
Add x 1X1, 2X2, or 3X3 sim surround to Smart Start.
Reset Tab order on all forms.
Trees work a little better. Set the rez height to average of min/max. There is no grass, as no one knows the viewer parameters. 
Load OAR and other commands will start a Paused region and then load it
Opensim has more debug settings enabled. Slight performance decrease in exchange for better crash reporting to me.
Redirected avatars get admin notices of what is going on.
Log analyzer works even if Opensim is running.
MAC address analysis added to Log Analyzer

V3.924
New Feature: Log file parser added for Opensim.ini and Robust.log with hop links to the defective script/prim.
Smart start is Alpha code - please do not enable it unless its on a new, blank grid.
Remote Admin commands needed to start and stop regions added to Metropolis, OsGrid and Region servers
Smart Start has choice for Estate Owner for [SimSurround] Landfill function. Landfill creates a water or land region surrounding any region with a person in it.
More crashes detected by users, thank you for sending in the reports!: Icecast log folder may not have been created due to a missing .keep, This causes a crash when a log sweep occurs. 
Region panel may open in detailed mode before mysql has started.
Dogwood trees were missing from the Tree and Plant Selection, so it always tried to plant it as the default was True. Dogwood default is now off, and we also know that Dogwood is both a tree and a flower and is the state flower of Virginia. 
The land filler would incorrectly fill in non-1X1 region. If a pre-existing 4X4 was located, it would only see the lower left, and the 15 remaining slots would collide.

V3.923
Apache could be missing a default folder in OutworldzFiles\Logs\Apache due to a missing .keep, which I use to force git to keep the empty folder.
A crash could occur when avatars appear as Hypergrid and local visitors.

V3.922
Log File parser to list all avatars and to detect errors in Opensim.log
Log files get cleared out on schedule as set by "Keep For Days" in the Autobackup settings. The change is you can disable this so log files persist
New grids get a default of 1 day instead of 7 to Autobackup.
Setting->logs has a view logs button and an Analyze button. It does only one thing at the moment. It makes a Excel-compatible CSV list of all avatars that have logged in since the logs were cleared. 
Plans are to have it make a list of bad prims and other things that you can clean up.
Concierge defaults to Off.
Auto Filling of empty lands allows up to 3 region-wide sim surround
About 1,000 names randomly chosen for new regions. You can make your own list in Outworldzfiles.
Added photos of all Trees and Bushes.
Autofill regions are placed in Estate 1999 "SimSurround"
Various changes to AI generated lands, and add settings for smooth, bump and land level to GUI
Known issue: Smart Start will shut down the surrounding sims - it should keep them running.
Known issue: Regular teleport do not interface to Smart Boot regions. No scripted teleports to SS_enabled lands. Hypergrid links work, as do the V3.9 signs.


V3.921
**** Do Not enable Smart start on your grid. If you want to play with it, use it on a new, blank grid.
**** It will break all teleport except Landmarks and HG Visitors. 
Missing default images for your Diva web page.
Missing 10,000 names in a file, breaking Autofill regions.
Missing Apache's magic file and a dozen readme's
I hate 7Zip, replaced with Perl

V3.92
Physics default was always overridden to off in Region options.


V3.91 POST FIXES FOR 3.9

Scrolling Text box bottom was not floating with the bottom of the window.
Teleport signs got back a UUID instead of a region name, so scripted teleports were borked. missing an else.

V3.9 
Change the Load OAR options to be more visible. These remember the last setting.

V3.8996
Zip 64 functions are enabled now, should stop all the Backup crashes. Whodathunk thats not on by default? Not me!
If disk < 50 MB free, suspend all running regions. Mysql and robust are left running to flush to disk. When disk space is available, thaw the regions.
Now 29,950 Translation. in the spreadsheet. Edits should me emailed to fred@outworldz.com so they can be compiled in, thank you very much! This uses a new mechanism thats much easier to merge and make them
Now Showing prim counts! in Region Details.
Teleport Sign shows all Smart Boot Regions + running regions. Signs just show running region if Smart Boot is off.
Halved setup time by setting INI files just once unless you changed something.
Record and use boot time for map on and off separately.
Restart All Button starts all Smart Boot regions.
Load OAR, View Console, Start buttons will bring up a Smart Boot region.
Parcels in OARs are loaded by default.
Check if sims overlap and issue a warning of which overlap, and where.
Added buttons in Load OAR as no everyone is blind to the Options.
Git failed to save important DLLs so WhoGotWhat failed on every development machine.Thank you, core. Not every DLL can be compiled as you don't include libOpenMetaverse and many others such as Log4Net.
7Zip will not add a file named 'magic'. Or any file without a file extension. Not no way, not no how. 

V3.8995
Add a debug entries screen to toggle internal stuff on and off
Added a disk space calculator and warning is disk space is low.
View all maps did not tile as expected.

V3.8994
Delete the tmp folder in case backups crash
Diagnostics port 8001 never moved - was always on 8001
Better timing of pause between sims when starting one at a time.
Region Servers used the wrong IP

V3.8993
Multiple tests of the LoadAllOArs function now pass.
Show Disk free space and warn if disk space gets low.
More Icons everywhere.
Backup just the region INI, not all the other rebuilt stuff in Regions.
Added a Teleport log


V3.8992
Smart Start Alpha code improved to accept HG visitors - if the region they want is not online, they get routed to The Welcome region.

V3.8991
Smart Start 1.0 Alpha release. Documentation coming later. Deal with it.
Added a backup of the Statistics database, where logins and such are stored.
Switched to Co-op mode for scripts which is more stable. Helps with stuck shutdowns.
Added Start/Stop and Delete buttons for Apache. Do not stop apache, un-install it, install it, and start it. Just start it, okay?
Region Icons line up in columns, and the Avatars and Users columns remember size changes.
Added Show All Maps button to Maps
Add DefaultRegion to all regions that are not Smart Start. Both HG and Local visitors will get redirected if the Welcome (HG default) region is offline.

V3.899
Changes to the way signs work for Smart Start. 
Splash page could be entered without a http, which breaks the splash page and gives a cryptic error.
Fix in restore SQL database - just click the .sql and restore it.
Tmp folder could fill up in V3.98 and fill a hard drive. Now gets emptied on startup.

V3.898
Add path to robocopy as Windows Server can't seem to find it.
MysqlDump timeout with --compress and --skip-lock-tables --compress --quick. Lets us back up while running without killing the Sims.
Add 10 more language translations - 30 Languages now!
Fix crash if no name when loading an OAR.
Re-enable all Physics engines.
Valid UUIDs with Guid.TryParse.

V3.897
Firewall may not be properly set due to a race condition in V3.896. Depends upon CPU speed, disk and region count
Firewall script now runs as a parameterized thread with unique file name, fw.bat no longer used
Small improvement in speed in Region List for estate queries.
MySQLdump (.sql) backup speedup and better transactional stability option.
Add a Fix_presence.bat file in case an avatar gets stuck.

V3.896
More changes so you can save a region while running.
Added Concierge module which announces people coming and going in each region. Enable it globally in Setup-Settings->Regions and restart the region. Selectable on/off per region. 
Latest FSassets file backup would not work if paths had spaces in them.

V3.895
jOpensim fixes for profiles and many other settings. Many thanks to Rich Dennis for his help and good ideas.
PHP has OpenSSL enabled so jOpensim can send emails via PHP.
Modern viewers will bypass the Region bottleneck and get textures directly from the Robust service.
FSAssets: Backups of FSassets are no longer compressed into a zip instead there is a Mirrored copy to Autobackup/FSAssets. This makes it more efficient to backup files over a network as only files that have changed need to be copied or moved.
FSAssets: Backups can be done over a \\shared name, and it will wait for the share to be initialized.
FSAssets:If destination free disk space is < 50 MB, the backup of FSAssets will stop.
FSAssets:It should run very quickly after the first run as it only copies assets with the A bit set, then it resets it. The A bit is set if a file is created or modified.
Much faster way to get the PID of running processes which speeds up booting.

V3.894
Send emails to any or all local users

V3.893
Glitch in Save IAR

V3.892
Maps have a print preview and print button.
Loading or saving IARS has auto complete for avatar name.
Once again fixed the Add Region while running logic.

V3.891
IARs required a password again due to update of Opensim. This sets it back to no password.

V3.89
Backups run on Calendar time now, not on runtime. So if set for daily, and you shut down for a day it will make a backup when you start it. Previous versions required the sim to run for a day or longer before a backup occurred.
Backups run in a single thread, sequentially to keep from overwhelming slow CPU's
Error Logger now reports the stack contents and line number where the error was logged. 
Possible crash fix in Web page settings if an image had been deleted manually.
Problem in Group Settings for IM "MessageOnlineOnlyUsers=true"
Add XYSettings.ini to backups
Added a formal Copyright screen with links to the AGPL 3.0 copyright

V3.88
Minor problem in printing every hour

V3.87 
OsGrid boots once again. Had to change some of the files to match the latest version.
Physics Hybrid selection in a Region could be set but did not show as selected when re-edited.
Added a Perl example that can go through a folder of large numbers of OARs and keep just 1 per month, moving the extras to a different folder. Requires Strawberry Perl.
The INI files have been reorganized into a folder for each type of server - Robust Grid, Region Addon, OsGrid and Metropolis in the Config-include/Proto folder for easier editing.
Backups of Settings and Photos added to zips.
Splash screen photos got stepped on in an update. This is the last update that will do so. They are also backed up in the zip file.
Use Hashed MAC address of PC for DNS security. Log4Net has a security issue that a review shows does not affect Opensim.
Don't bitch about Welcome region on region servers.
Backup folder if missing, would cause a complaint loop and possible crash. 
Handle NAT and non-NAT routers situations gracefully. 
"Go.bat Some DOS Box Name" now handles DOS boxes with spaces in their names.
Log files moved to Outworldzfiles\Logs.
The countdown timer of regions that are still running shows only changes.
CPU use set to zero if region is shut off or suspended.
Saving of INI files should be more reliable, with retry logic.
Saving of new region or renaming could cause the region to become blank or not start.

V3.86 
Cuteulala Artis spotted that OARS were saving in the wrong folder due to a missing slash. Thanks for the tip!
A pop up could occur when closing out a grid telling you it cannot deregister regions.

V3.85 
Backups chat how many are running and a message when they are finished.
Themes would not save the image to the running theme, just to the next running theme.
Windows on Top control moved to a Menu and added to the main form
Large fonts and High DPI screens would cause icon sizes to change and the Graphs to not fit
Changed many icons to just blue
One of two ways to make a sign showed all regions, instead of just online regions
Adding a region or deleting one could cause the Region HTTP Port (Group Port) to collide with another region.
Brought back all Physics Engines.
Added Ninja (Ragdoll) prim physics enable for ODE.


V3.84 POST FIXES
Another crash in Black and White Diva Wifi Image on boot.
Systems running with a merged database where robust and region files are in the same db would backup twice.
Ban Lists did not reload automatically. It required you to click the Ban list after a reboot.


V3.83 POST FIXES
GUI Crash may be happening when running backup tasks. Added code to help spot the issue.
Added SQL backup to the backup scheduler. Caution ! FSAssets and SQL backups will fill up a disk quickly. Most useful if you want all backups with one click, or have lots of disk space and a small number of days to keep.
Graphs now float to fill the screen correctly.
MySqlBackup could not be turned off.


V3.82 POST FIXES
Backup of SQL files did not work. Zip was never made
Added a crash logger for all unhandled exceptions. It pops up a request to send the error securely to me.
Icons for Robust, Mysql, etc did not change color on a crash.
Add longer timeout to manual for FSassets help, and the Opensimulator wiki.

V3.81 POST-FIXES
Adding a new Region no longer requires restarting the grid
Backups used to make a copy, then zipped the copies folder. This used 1.5 times the original data while being backed up. Now it uses about half, depending on compression, throughout the entire process. Thanks for the idea, Marianna!
Apache sometimes would not install. Added an isApacheInstalled function to detect and install. Thanks for the tip, Garrt Beaumont!
Mysql could not restore or backup some very large assets > 100 MB.
System no longer types in console, except for Robust
Deleted Regions de-register from robust so you can place a new region there
Added a Region Message button to Region Pop Up so you can send Blue alerts more easily. 
Shutting down while zipping up backups would create large tmp files. These took a long time at startup to delete.

V3.8 RELEASE

V3.799
XMLRPC is deprecated.
MaxPort prevented you from adding a region and restarting it. Now adds Region port to the end of the list
Save IAR does no longer ask for passwords.
Server 2019 C++ Service Pack added.

V3.798
Opensim is latest build #70e00a00ec ("fix creators user cache", 2021-01-07)
 

V3.797
Backup improvements in file handling by using a tmp folder

V3.796
Backup improvements
Log file improvements
Some intermittent false crash alarms due to code order
CPUCounter disabled for now - causing speed issues on slower machines.

V3.795
Intermittent crash popup at startup fixed.

Added a topmost setting for The Region list to keep it on top of everything
Sorting of Region List both directions by clicking the header.
Format RAM in Region List as Mib = 1024 bytes, reduce CPU usage and fix an inconsistency in Groups with more than one region in memory use.
Wart user if try to quit while a backup is still running. Also prints that the backup has finished.
Updater can be updated
Apache logs expire with the "Keep For Days" setting
Threw out three years of work on Restart logic and rebuilt it all using XMLRPC and detecting process Window names. 

V3.794
Auto Restart now handles region restarts if the GUI has been restarted. Users can reliably restart a region.
Speedup: Only as many Performance counters as necessary, for umm, performance!
Boot Speedup: Install Apache only if it has changed folder. Also stops Apache from occasionally not starting. 
Opensim error: Mutelist and SearchURL fixes if Jopensim was enabled and them disabled.

V3.793
Error starting Icecast due to a missing slash.

V3 .792
Prior version mixed up a INI file and never re-wrote the Opensim.ini.
Depending upon your situation, it would boot but not let you log in. Or crash regions and not boot.


V3.791
Grid Gloebits broke in 3.79 when region Gloebit was fixed for jOpensim
Possible crash fixed when shutting down.
Log levels are sticky again. As one example If you set it to INFO, it will be INFO on a reboot. Log Folders were broken by changes to Log4Net in core.
Groups on Region servers were set to the wrong port.
XMLRPC and Remote Admin ports default to off = 0
Allow backups to non std config folders.
MySQL tweaks to 50 MB logs and larger buffer for imports of large mesh items.


V3.782 
Autobackups now support periodic backups of Regions, Mysql, and Settings.ioni into zip files. 
This function used to just do OARs. Now any running region makes oars and DreamGrid backs up Settings.ini, region .ini files, and a copy of the entire database, then zips them. If you have fsassets enabled, you can back it up and compress it too. Each setting can be enabled and disabled. The system deletes every file older than the number of days you set. These are the same settings you are familiar with in Backups, just set to very low.
 
When you load this rev, if Joomla is installed, this will prompt for an update if one is available. There is a easy way to update jOpensim included in Setup->Settings->Joomla/jOpensim. Your content will not be overwritten.

Maps, local Search, Users and Groups all work. jMoney does not yet work (it crashes, so the DLL is disabled).

Joomla is now 3.9.23, jOpensim is 0.3.2.0. The jOpensim webpage is now at V5 which has web page instructions on how to edit after an install. 

MySqlRev = "5.6.5" to prep for Joomla V4, which requires at least 5.6, 5.65 is the next release.5.7 requires major changes, we may never see that.

Gloebit runs in Grid mode on Grids, in Region mode on region servers. No need to open Port 3306 and protect it with firewall on Region servers to get Gloebit.

Major changes in how translations work to make it easier to maintain. About 16,000 of them now. If you have both English and other language skills, please take a look at the Spreadsheet in Outworldzfiles and help us translate more phrases.

Help Files are now web pages for ease of maintenance. The RTF files are still the source for these in github Src, but are not in releases as they are huge.

Added Remote Admin port to all regions for future use and for jOpensim.

Enable AddinExample to capture simple script input.

Enable WhoGotWhat to capture in world events.

BanList changes for IP addresses which now support /24 subnets


V3.781 JOPENSIM UPDATE
This rev of DreamGrid supports Rev 0.3.2.0. If you are running Jopensim at an earlier rev, you must update JOpensim in the Joomla/administrator menu. There are minor changes in new added features, but huge changes to the internal communication structure between OpenSimulator and Joomla.

Step 1) To Update Joomla, navigate to your Joomla admin panel at http://127.0.0.1/JOpensim/administrator and log in as Admin. In the top menu, go to Component->Joomla Update and update your Joomla system. 
Step 2)Go to Extensions-Manage->Install and click Browse to File. The file you install is in OutworldzFiles\Apache\JOpensim_Files\Version0.3.2.0. Select and install pkg_jopensim.0.3.2.0.zip. There is no need to unzip it first.


V3.78 JOPENSIM FIX
A password was accidentally put in the JOpensim Backup. Fix has been back ported to V3.77.
Minor fix to ban list to prevent a blank line from creeping in.
Hyperica.com rewritten to get rid of ancient PHP5 code with many improvements for Search. Only V3.77 and higher are supported.
Load Local IAR crashed system - leftover old code

Known issues: JOpensim search is still down. 

To Do list:

⬜ A lot of buttons should be grayed in Region Servers as they deal with robust.
⬜ Group notice has no image
⬜ In LAN mode, warn and turn off publicity as you cannot be reached ★
⬜ Autobackup folder is wrong for SQL backup batch file
⬜ Empty the assets table in MySQL when FSassets is in use ★
⬜ Avatar can be in region at startup?
⬜ Check that selecting a name causes the name to be claimed in the Names table ★
⬜ Everyone wants to change the image ★
⬜ Rework http://outworldz.com/Outworldz_installer/Welcome.htm ★
⬜ Add warning of Apache log sizes and a way to delete them ★
⬜ Add FSsassets and auto run the fsassets import command when the switch is first flipped.
⬜ Add set root password for mysql option
⬜ Add search in Regions List
⬜ Add date/time switch to console logging
⬜ Add enabled for each Database for service replacement We do not want to stop a MYsql is installed as a service.
⬜ ADD PARAMS FOR Restart time and CPU %
⬜ Allow editing of UUID when region is not running. If it changes, update the UUID in the dictionary.
⬜ Script for Partners only works in XEngine
⬜ Add Classifieds in Viewer. The viewer can read them, just no way to add them yet.




V3.77
Data snapshot (Search) was interfering with Diva Wifi. The Wifi module has been removed from Regions and is now in Robust onl. The side effect is if you wish to test if a region is running with a web browser, you use the Statistics button in Regions Panel.
Offline IMs now work again. Needed to use the Public URL and Public port, not private port 8003. 
Group IM’s now work. Same thing. 
Clicking Start now redoes all INIs. A bit slower to boot, but less confusing as you should no longer have to exit the app for some changes to take effect.
Joomla MAPs & Apache needed PHP7 curl, which would not load. They could have just read the files off disk, but noooo. It’s been “fixed” by copying necessary (and very old) DLLs to Windows/System32. These are OpenSSL V1.02. No idea what PHP people are going to do in the future as these DLLS are really, really dead, but also really necessary. A test file is located at Http://Grid:80/curl_test.php and it should print your Public IP address.
RemoteAdmin Port has been altered for use with Joomla. See Ports setup.
XMLRPC Ports can be set per region. Some third party apps use them for money.
Local IAR HypeEvents IAR changed to have a clickable link to the current Hypevents provider.
The DreamGrid Test Region in the free OARS has been modified with an updated radio, HypeEvents and other free goodies.
A new translation.vb added to eliminate all the constant editing of non-editable files.
Reset Password link in Viewer was broken
Log level change now survives reboots.
IAR and OAR menus reorganized to be easier to locate the various ways to load and save things.
Built and tested a shared region module “WhoGotWhat”. It uses use a LSL script in a ‘giver’ box. Touching the box gives the contents. It also posts Who, What, Where the contents was given, and logs when it happens in Outworldzfile\Opensim\Bin\ WhoGotWhat.csv. Should work in Region Servers, too. The grid owner can load this into a spreadsheet and know what people have been getting. 


V3.76
Add remote Admin port and XMLRPC ports to firewall and UPNP
PHP7 curl works now for Jopensim to use
Patch around an issue with Hyperica.com's SSL interfering with Opensims inability to fetch from a https source


V3.75 UPDATER TWEAK 
Removed deprecated Ionic.zip.dll. Older versions of DreamGrid were forced to use this DLL at an even old rev due to collisions in updater and older Dreamgrids. Now its really, really dead. Replaced by System.Compression.DotNetZip.
DreamGridUpdater case in URL (Dremgrid vs DreamGrid) caused download to be incredibly slow. An updateable redirect at Outworldz.com was supposed to send this URL to a Cloud Storage service. It did not always do so.
Add CAA record to Outworldz and Hyperica DNS for security - prevents forgery of certificates.

V3.74 UPDATER UPDATED
Run “DreamGridUpdater.exe”. It will shut off Apache and MySQL, download the latest released and extract it, then click Start.exe for you. 
Some region columns could end up with 0 width and so they disappeared. 
Added more checks for correct data entry to regions such as Script timer and Frame timers. Limits added: .05 < value > 1.
JOpensim’s RemoteAdminPort was 5050 in all regions which crashed the 2nd region onward. It is now a variable set to 0, happens on only one region as originally intended, and the port is disabled by default. Crash fix was also pushed back into 3.73.
Simplified JOpensim Installer can choose between JOpensimSearch of your local grid or Hyperica Global Search.

V3.7 3 
Asmall improvement in Joomla/Jopensim
Tweaks to Joomla Install Button.
Joomla Search enabled. This actually sucks, will add a button to toggle between it and Hyperica search which works.
Same for JMoney. It’s a pay-for-license thing.
Scrolling text accidentally moved – fixed.
Suppress SSL msg in PHP in event manager.
Sitemap.xml now auto updates for all 4 CMS systems.
Allow remote admin in Joomla.

V3.72
Apache update to 2.4.41
PHP updated to version 7.4.12
Apache now supports streaming video for mp4 files so you can use modern players and seek quickly.
Simplified Joomla install to one zip file.
Maps work in JOpensim (curl is fixed)

V3.71
The 25,000 pickable DNS names updated to be more random when clicking Next.
Added Alias field to HG DNS Name Setting so you can run more than one URL to your grid. For example, both www.outworldz.com and outworldz.com. Or an old grid name. The alias field accepts a comma delimited list of names.
Gloebits is fixed again.
JOpensim constants added for Search and Profiles.
JOpensim constants added for Search and Profiles.
Drop ODE, Bullet/Hybrid modes. We now have UBODE and Bullet in a separate thread.
Update Opensim to #ba46b5bf8bd0 libomv master 0.9.2.dev 2020-09-21 2020-10-14 19:44.
Fixed German Translations which causes boxes to change size.
New grids regions start within +/- 10 of the 1000,1000 start point for the main map to use.

V3.7
Sendkeys had issues so sometimes save all oars not working. Set to consistent behavior in Start.exe.config
Threaded System backup to not block the main UI
Added Joomla DLL's to bin

V3.695 ALPHA RELEASE FOR 3.7
Minor tweaks

V3.694 ALPHA RELEASE FOR 3.7
Another bug in Banlist fixed, could not add more than one http:grid.com>:8002 address

V3.693 ALPHA RELEASE FOR 3.7
Fixes to Ban Lists for Viewer name. This uses a simple string compare.
One can use a Substring of the viewer name to disable only certain versions
 Example: Agent uses the viewer "Imprudence 1.3.2.0"
 - "Imprudence" has no access
 - "Imprudence 1.3" has no access
 - "Imprudence 1.3.1" has access as the string does not match
For the old Darkstorm copybot viewer, use “Firestorm-Releasex64 5.0.11” or “Firestorm-Releasex64 5" to ban all older Firestorms.

V3.692 ALPHA RELEASE FOR 3.7
Recompiled Opensim

V3.691 ALPHA RELEASE FOR 3.7
Fixes to Ban Lists for Grid name, use syntax like http://hg.osgrid.org:80
Moved Banlist.txt into Settings.ini for portability
Add a visitor list to the Local IAR that is styled like the Teleport sign

Known Issues:
Dot Net 4.8 does not compile for me. Stull at 4.6.
Viewer bans are too banny. Seems to be an Opensim bug.
You cannot run more than 1 grid on an IP without using Domain names. http://opensimulator.org/mantis/view.php?id=8771 
Arabic and Farsi translations do not work at all so they are disabled.

V3.69 POST FIXES
Add new Icons for Opensim and Robust windows
Opensim updated to #d2e7c711b4188106a 0.9.2.dev 2020-09-21 20:40:24 actually make yExceptionMessage and yExceptionTypeName avaiable"
Some NPCs from Satyr Farm would crash a region hard.
Fix the Unknown User that appears on some avatars and NPCs

V3.68 POST FIXES (BETA BLEEDING EDGE)
Opensim updated to "#650e6bbe55c55fe05 0.9.2.dev 2020-09-07 17:08	fix silly bugs on osReplaceRegionEnvironment()
Fixed birds module.dll after mistakenly deleting the .bak and .ini files. doh
Updated DreamGrid_Test_Region-1X1.oar to include birds test
Updated DreamGrid_Test_Region-1X1 to include the Outworldz Radio system. This is an always up-to-date radio system.
Updated DreamGrid_Test_Region-1X1 to include a Deathstar moon and Fantasy sun for EEP tests.
Restored OsSlEnableDG.ini default settings.

V3.67 POST FIXES (BLEEDING EDGE OPENSIM)
Opensim updated to #ac8271e391bee1b 0.9.2.dev 2020-09-12 19:10:45	try reduce number of this webrequest
This mainly adds back in EEP defaults. See http://opensimulator.org/viewgit/?a=shortlog&p=opensim. Also fixes some HTTP-In

V3.65 POST FIXES (BLEEDING EDGE OPENSIM)
Fixed a glitch that caused immediate crash in 3.64

V3.64 POST FIXES (BLEEDING EDGE OPENSIM)
Add 100+ translations.
Add Brazilian Portuguese.
Opensim updated to #7dc50c93b82f22da8a9 0.9.2.dev 2020-08-26. This fixes a glitch in EPP that showed a missing UUID. Also fixes a repeated debug log that occurs when the suitcase is on and a visitor arrives.
Drop PDB files to save zip file size.
Another try at fixing the missing texture popup in EEP Firestorm
Added updated parts to the Test Island:
Fixed Shaun's Radio, as it did not run in the latest Opensim. There are prims on colored tiles outlining separate parcels to test the Search Parcel features of different prims in your viewer at Hyperica.com. Tides test: there is a ruler for showing the tides going up and down 3 meters in 15 minutes and also the test buoy. I have this script in water lilies and surf in my sims. Both teleporters and the Partners prim are there for testing. And Opensim Birds are available.

V3.63 POST FIXES
Opensim updated to #e9b4bca0899f13eab 0.9.2.dev 2020-08-25. 
UPNP for new grids is on by default. And it works. This should make it a lot easier for nooblets.
Add firewall manual on how fw.bat works.
Fixed Unicode support in Events on Hyperica.com

V3.62 POST FIXES
Added Audio and Video examples on how to play region-wide audio loops and how to play videos
Update license files to exactly match names in OAR folder. Add 6 new OARS.


V3.61 POST FIXES
Opensim is Dev Master for EEP testing #af9bd993bb71ed1d6 2020-08-11 09:33:41
Altered mechanism for reading OSSL section of OpenSim.ini to use config-include/osslDefaultEnable.ini which then loads config-include/osslEnable.ini overrides.
Add osReplaceAgentEnvironment, osSetParcelMusicURL to oslEnable
Add sounds used by Firestorm keyword chat alert, user younger than x days alert, etc. 
Add default clouds, rainbow and Halo textures.


V3.6
Release of V3.592


V3.592 RELEASE CANDIDATE FOR V3.6
Drop Addins-db-002

V3.591 RELEASE CANDIDATE 
Oops, some missing files in 3.59.
Also fixed a missing macro in Opensim.exe.config and robust.exe.config that stopped the "Help->Issue Console Commands->Set Debug Level" from taking effect for all sessions, not just one session.


V3.59 RELEASE CANDIDATE 7/24/2020
Opensim updated to the same as OsGrid: Version #b598573 0.9.2.dev. 5-22-10:55 This includes hundreds of tweaks.
Enabled built-in Denial-of-Service protection. 
Added Settable Ban lists for Grids, Viewer type, IP addresses and MAC addresses.
S4ving an oar without a .oar extension now gets .oar added on end.
RegionList could be shifted one column to the right.
Create a blank WordPress database using robust credentials.
Add manual to show how to install Wordpress. tl;dr: Save WP in Outworldzfile\htdocs\WordPress and load http://localhost/Wordpress in a browser. Use Robust credentials.
FollowSymLinks added to Apache httpd.conf for easier integration of WordPress, and Directory Index was re-ordered.
Fixed Restart on Crash to ignore physics engine.
Removed Scan of Region logs to improve performance. 
YEngine script is now the default for new DreamGrids.


V3.58 POST FIXES 7/14/2020
When more than one grid is run on a PC do not shut off wrong Robust.
Region Form remembers the column widths in Details mode.
OsGrid complained about 2 economy modules.
Viewers complained that items are not available even when suitcase is off. This is a visual reminder to local users that their inventories are unavailable while they are traveling, and available when they return. Now should warn only if you enable suitcase, and off if you disable the suitcase. 
OsGrid alias added to match the latest OsGrid specs.
Map button disabled except when this is a grid.
Adding a region did not add a hole in the firewall.
PHP warns in Apache log now suppressed.
Fix black on black text in White Theme when authorizing a user.
Added a pose stand patch to Opensimulator by Lotek. This adds all poses in the Firestorm floater, so the floater works in Opensimulator, making the need for 3rd party pose stands/HUDs obsolete. His alert sound patch adds the alert sound that Firestorm uses to signify radar alerts and keyword alerts.
Added XMLRPC port to each Region for third party tools to control Opensim. 
http://opensimulator.org/wiki/RemoteAdmin:RemoteAdmin_Examples
Stopped a recursive timer tick from happening on slow machines which again delayed startup of Regions.

V3.57 POST FIXES 7/6/2020
Bug Fix:Console = None works again.
Performance: Skip huge folders with no Dlls in updates 
Bug Fix: timer reentrant issue that shut down the icons. 
Performance: Added back the DoEvents to make UI more responsive.
Coding: Added example on how to make an addin for Opensim
Bug Fix: Local Events missing a column.

V3.56 POST FIXES 6/18/2020
New Feature: Updates could destroy added on services such as WordPress or Joomla. Added a switch to 
Apache to select "DreamGrid Diva", WordPress, or Joomla/JOpensim or "Other" folder as the home page, 
such as http://(your grid):80, aka http://(your grid). Documentation on this is not in this update. 
But to put it simply, there are three new folders in Apache/htdocs. Unzip Joomla or WordPress in the folder.
Change the Setting in Apache, click the Apache icon and select Restart. The rest is just setting up your CMS.
Improvement: Change priority of webserver to realtime to help icons stay in sync on super busy servers.
Tweak: Re-write Icecast XML on Start, not just boot.
Crash prevention: If blank "Server Admin" email, use "not@set.yet" to allow Apache to start anyway. 
Performance: Don't scan logs if Restart on physics Crash is set for anything but Bullet in a separate thread, as it useless.


V3.55 POST FIXES 6/12/2020
Added a Refresh button to the OAR loader

V3.54 POST FIXES 6/10/2020
Welcome Regions with a space in the name could not be tp'ed to over the Hypergrid. A really old bug, too.
Allow YEngine and Xengine to be selected per region.
Show map photos without lines or text.
Added a Show All Maps button to Map page.
Pretty print Licenses with wordwrap and length restriction.
OpenJPEG not CSJ2K to cut down on warnings.
Fixed graph glitch when resizing home.


V3.53 POST FIXES 6/2/2020
Tuned Apache.conf for speed, security, in effort to "Future Proof" if people add Wordpress or Joomla.
Include conf/extra/httpd-mpm.conf whioch has been tweaked to use a 4 core machine without too much RAM in use. 
Added MIMEMagicFile module and conf/magic for peeking in file contents to determine the MIME type.
Just in case of user error, prevent .user.ini PHP settings files from being viewed by Web clients.
Added a bunch of mod_deflates for compression for various browsers.
Added a bunch of expires by type for web browsers built-in caches.


V3.52 POST FIXES 5/31/2020
'admin' password for Icecast was the same as the stream password. Extended the "new grid" random passwords to 15 characters.

V3.51 POST FIXES. 5/28/2020
Tweaks at turn off DEBUG in opensim.exe.config, make a longer default password for Wifi Admin.


V3.5 RELEASE 5/26/2020
General Release and set to trigger "Update Needed" via AutoUpdater.
Made the Region Chooser resizable and remember its size per request from Ethan Breck. Nice idea!

V3.49 RELEASE CANDIDATE FOR 3.5 5/22/2020 
Oops, IM and receive objects via IM over HG was broken.

V3.48 RELEASE CANDIDATE FOR 3.5 5/22/2020
Map tiles in MySQL are automatically deleted when rebuilt to save disk space.
Offline message module fixes.
3-day auto backup would not work due to extra leading space
Stopping a multi-folder system would stop all Robust boxes. Now it uses the Robust Process ID.
Home page Icons relocated so app supports Large fonts. 
Clicking an icon has a restart option to start or restart the service.
Icons have Help option for each background service.

V3.47 RELEASE CANDIDATE FOR 4.5 4/26/2020
The IAR save only saved the Wifi Admin IAR. Reverted back to standard Opensim so you need to know or reset the users password. Doh!

V3.46 RELEASE 4/26/2020
Opensim checks passwords for IARS now, but you only use Wifi Admin’s password. Makes it much easier to dump an IAR for a customer/user and makes it more secure. Users can load IARS in the Wifi Web Panel using their password.

V3.45 RELEASE 4/21/2020
Change Offline IM Group port to port 8003 to stop endlessly repeating error messages in Robust.
Allow empty bin\Libraries.proto for one person who wants no library.
Simplified Try catch to catch all exceptions everywhere. 
Speed up detection of stopped Robust and Icecast windows. 
Lots and lots of small Search changes to make it more reliable and stop all the "Search is offline" messages
Could not disable search entirely. Now you can.
Upnp Manager crash fix.
Enabling Apache will remove and re-install the service on startup to make it easier to move to a new folder.
PHP.ini got duplicated - now it's just one. Also changed some PHP settings for Search.


V3.44 RELEASE
Try Catch OAR load from web and other Web checks to remove dependency on Outworldz and Hyperica.
More checks on WindowsTitle as Windows is not always setting them.


V3.43 RELEASE 4/7/2020
Missing line of code broke Gloebits if any settings were not the default.
Home page links fixed in viewer for login and Help

V3.42 POSTFIXES RELEASED 3/27/2010
Region Restart Form could crash if you fat-fingered some settings. Now it saves on close after sanity checks.
On first boot, Welcome did not start due to not having a group port.
TOS form would save, but not stick around after an update or a change from black to white or custom.
Always set Gloebits INI as region servers will crash without it set up.
Wrong folder for cache. Oops.
Just hide the damn downloader.

V3.41 POST FIXES RELEASE 3/6/2020
A load OAR or Load IAR search and clicking to load it got you the wrong item. Thankxx for the tip, Scott Taylor!

V3.4 RELEASE 2/28/2080
Fixed issues in German Translation that caused a crash for Dieter Mueller. Thank you very much for the valuable feedback.
About 100 of the translations were not 'taking'.
New form for Nooblets to use to create the initial avatar. Thanks to Garry Beaumont for pushing for this.
Avatar View in Region list was not set to visible. Oops
Spellcheck every manual - Office 365 Word has no grammer (sic) or other errors, and it shows readability from 6th to 9th grade so there is no excuse for not reading them. 
Publicity module crash when nothing was entered. There was a string set to nothing. Should have been "", which is not nothing.

V3.38 BETA
Extensive refactoring and state machine changed in region restart. 
Main form resizes in all screen scale font size.
Updated 15460 translations, including hand-updated German and French. Thank you very much to all the volunteers!
Should be able to change most settings and restart the region without shutting down the grid.
Sped up lots of places and much more threading during boot and shutdown. 

V3.37 BETA
Updates started at 0, should be at curtrent version to prevent repetitive begging for updates.
Robust double start fixes.
DNS shows busy when testing.
Allow changes to Opensim.ini, Gloebits and birds to take effect without resetting the entire system, usually through changing a region settings.
Max region port function would not always return the highest port, preventing multiple DOS boxes from booting w/o restarting the system

V3.36 BETA
Possible hard crash in Check for Update if going from from V3.34 to V3.35. A variable was FALSE, should have been a number

V3.35 BETA
Added Search to Load OAR and Load IAR (web)
Stopped a crash on Server 2016 if Publicity was blank.
Several Updater and Downloader changes so updates can be skipped. Updates are automatically downloaded to a zip file in the root folder. The next startup or Help->Check For Updates, it detects the fresh zip and asks if you want to update to that version. If yes, it brings up the Backup screen, then shuts down mysql and Apache, and launches an unzipper. if you chose No, it will not prompt you again until the next version is ready.

V3.34 BETA
When region is not running, speed up region click from 15 seconds to 1 second by using an async TCPCLient to probe the port.
Reset CPU usage to 90% instead of 75% for slow machines
Crash on Server 2016 when SetMyINI value is nothing.

V.33 BETA 
Can always hide region DOS boxes,always show, or hide when done with an action.
God Mode fixes where region overrides could get stuck on or off
Disable Residents fixes where region overrides could get stuck on or off
Lots of tweaks to region restart.
Made it so the chooser and other important dialogs pop to the front. It was not really possible to edit two regions, before this. 
Can now add multiple regions at the same time without breakage.
A Diagnostics log to show the details.
Added uncaught exception error handler/logger. See Error.log if it just quits.
Use HTTP with redirects at server in case SSL fails.
A new "Pausing" icon/state when Region Recycling is used. Restarts will be about 30 seconds now as there are two stages
Allow_osMessageObject and Allow_osGetNotecard set true for Satyr farming by non estate managers.
Updates to Nuget repos.
Updated Apache to latest version 2.4.1 so it can handle TLS1.3.
Generate graphic titles to all web-downloadable IAR and OARs. 
Reworked Cache on main server to load much faster. My server's SSD needs upgrading due to all the 3D crap you peeps get for free. Its 385 GB used out of 400. Eeep!
SSL added to Hyperica.com content. What a pain. Should be "Future-proof" for both SSL and non-SSL versions of Hyperica.com and Outworldz.com by not using SSL at all except thru server-side redirects.
Checked every possible web access, and no it does not break your grid if Hyperica or Outworldz.com is down. Grid-wide Search and load OAR and IAR will obviously be offline. Deal with it.
Closing the settings form now closes all the child settings forms for garbage collection.
15X15-sized region was not selectable, and the settings defaulted to max of 4 if you looked again after a save.
Tests DNS name when saved.

V3.32 BETA 

Clicking the Clear cache button could cause a crash if the fsasset folder did not exist.


V3.31 BETA

A major change in internal structure should speed up the region list and boot to be significantly faster. This also improves responsiveness due to fewer blocking loops.

New grids will get a set of regions at a random starting address. This greatly reduces the problem of teleport fails when hypergridding between grids where the regions are at the same X and Y location. You can't.

Both the Metropolis map and the Google map use automagic to center the welcome region on the map.

Avatar counts now match between the region list and the main form. It used to leave the last avatar count on the main form.

If you hover on the Main form where it says N Avatars, you get a list of avatars and the region.

Clicking an avatar name in the region list brings up a teleport to the avatar. This works best if the Viewer you are using was the last viewer you installed.

Concierge announces the avatar Login/Logout in the DreamGrid console.

Double start of Robust should be gone now. It was recursion and timing related.

Opensimulator now uses UseCSJ2K for maps. This should reduce the number of warnings when making higher resolution maps.

MAXprims has been tweaked when you set a override.

The updater has been tweaked to be significantly faster. It runs in background and leaves a zip file of the proper revision in the root folder.

Icecast did not get updated on Startup, but only when you saved the form. Moving the system to a new folder thus broke Icecast.

Maps uses UseCSJ2K for fewer warnings.

This version has a new var region preview map button. There is a button in Help where you select the region, and a button in the Popo up form when you click a region in the Region List.

Clicking a region name in the Regions form no longer brings up the DOS Box. There is a View Console button in the popup.

Changing the enable flag in Regions did not prompt "save?", if you just closed the region box.

Cache clear happens much faster. Except for scripts. Nothing more I can do there as every script has to be examined.

Selecting an OAR showed the entire row selected. Now it is just the cell, Thanks AI Austin!


V3.3
 This is a general release and is in the Automatic Updater.

Opensim set to Released OpenSimulator version 0.9.1.1 Snail #7bdc408caca3. This changes some LSL constants so an automatic script cache clear will be done at first boot.

Content menu Load Free Oar and Load Free IAR pulls data at startup with images, licenses, and names of all free OARS and IARS. 

Inworld restarts of a region are always buggy. Now set so any Inworld Restart shuts down the entire Instance. You must set the the Auto Restart capability of DreamGrid to restart the sim.

Allow logins while scripts are loading which speeds up reboot.

UbODE: convex shape type on normal prims and sculpts enabled, and MeshFileCache enabled (UBODE only)

llCastRay set to V3 which Meshes prims for good accuracy in ray hit detection, handling basic and tortured prims, sculpts and meshes.
* Uses ellipsoid, correctly sized avatar capsules.
* Handles complex terrain, multi-prim objects and seated avatars.
* Implements throttling and the status codes RCERR_UNKNOWN and RCERR_CAST_TIME_EXCEEDED, so LSL scripts need to handle these responses and RCERR_SIM_PERF_LOW.

V3.299
New: Opensim updated to 066a6fbaa1 ("changes on lludp acks and resends", 2019-12-18) which hopefully will fix where you cannot see mesh and land when running a viewer.

Bug: MaxPort function had a bug in it that caused an occasional crash when adding a region.

Fix: Deregistering all regions was awkward to run as mysql had not been started.

New: Region Popup now has a View Log button.

Minor: An 'alert' was missing in one load oar 

Fix: Would never start a region if CPU > 75%. Was supposed to start after 1 minute wait.

Minor: Added more checks for bad region numbers.

Minor: Reduce region icon size to 20 px

Bug: No single quotes allowed in DOS box names as the Windows handler cannot grab hwnd PID with a single quote in the name. Regions can have single quotes in them.
V3.298
Restart, Error handler, and Shutdown logic changes after a DreamGrid restart where it has to find and re-attach to each region. This fixes the CPU usage = 0 and other glitches in the Region list. These occurred when DreamGrid was restarted with regions already running and it could not find the Process ID.
Global and Local Search uses V3HG links which work inside Singularity and Firestorm viewer, Media On A Prim, and in Web Links. Many thanks to AI Austin and 
Robust logging set back to INFO from DEBUG.
Ports are initialized sequentially only at boot. Adding a new region puts the port onto the end. This stops Region confusion when regions are added while system is running.
Regions > 4X4 in some cases would not load using the GUI.
Icecast port defaults changed to 8100-8102 for new users only.
Minor Start/Stopped button fixes when something goes wrong in a boot.
Icon size was off by 4 pixels in Region List which goofed up Large Screen mode

V3.297
Teleport signs could be fooled into showing offline regions if a region had crashed or been stopped without a quit command. Now they have to be both enabled and booted, too.
OAR menus refreshed every hour from Hyperica/Outworldz – no need to restart to get a new release of a Region.
Regions have an Override per region for Script Engine for X or Y Engine.
UBODE and Bullet are the remaining Script Engines
Diva Wifi updated to latest version which repairs problems in adding Default Avatars.
Load OAR 0.9 link was busticated.
New Categories for Publicity (and fixed the ones with commas).
Ports and Script Engines now show in Region Lists.
IF Apache is a service, leave MySQL running so PHP maps work.

V3.296
Added a Log->Error Log to the menu. This log is the first place to look when it crashes. Its always been there, just not in the menu. Doh!
Changes to the way it detects the process IDs of running Opensim. Added a single class to monitor all of them. Hopefully, this will eliminate some of the odd things that have been reported that happen on occasion, such as not closing he DOS windows, but only on first boot.
MySQL now stops when you click Stop. This helps prevent MySQL corruption. If Apache is running as a Service, MySQL, PHP, and Apache are left running, even when you exit so your map and home pages will still appear. Diva Wifi Web page is part of Robust, so it will not.
Tweaks to the 4 icons, including a new Red X Error Icon.
Updated Licenses to some of the downloadable OAR files to be absolutely clear which ones are exclusive to the Outworldz.
V3.295

Opensim Release 0.9.1.1 2019-12-03 14:27 #5c5e4bd8304dbb607a mantis 8632: stop triggering Changed on just scale checks

rm extra CRLF when first starting up and creating the first user.


V3.294
Publicity module (finally) lets you add descriptive text to your Hyperica Listing. Category setting where you can click one or more sections to appear in the new Destination Guide.
Fixed a lot of Unicode problems in Events and Search.
If a region responds when it is popped up onscreen after a click, make certain it also has a "running" icon.
Using Dot Net 4.6.1 (disabled legacy) features in Opensim since it is stable and the recommended setting. 
Minor changes to Send keys to try to make the 'q' key more reliable on obsolete Windows 7 machines.
V3.293
Bird module DLL was missing. Could lead to a crash if you updated from an older version and enabled birds.
V3.292
Aborted release - multiple issues with German Translation due to a newline that caused it to make crash tinkly noises.
The Region List form could be opened more than once due to a missing line of code.

V3.291
German Language translations by Ralf Burger, thank you!
Search module for local grids was broken. You need to add the path to PHP7 to the beginning of Path if you want to use local search. Global is fine.
A dozen more translations and some fixes for Globalization in forms for resizing. Unicode issues broke some things and could cause crashes.
Reordered the Search Menus to make better sense - thanks, Ai Austin!
Cleaned up all warnings about programming style that appeared in Studio 2019, so I can spot anything that might be important in the future.
Region List shows dashes (-) when the setting comes from the default, instead of a region override. This was only partly implemented before.
Implemented much more checking of human-entered values in places like the Birds form.
Added a Trouble shooting Guide to Help.

V3.29

You can click the round MySQL, Robust, Apache and Icecast status buttons to stop/start them. 
Avatar count was different in different displays.
Half-dozen new language Translations.
Was possible to have a Null Reference Exception when Booting a region if Stop button was clicked at the right time.
Busy/Start/Abort button fixes. Clicking Busy will force an Abort when shutting down.
Catch as many individual errors as it can when reading region INI files. It complains with details of what to fix, and aborts the launch.
Fix check if MySQL is running so Estates and Avatars will appear in region list.
Sequential/Timer Boot before running a next region, not after.
Precise CPU graph with a 4-second running average for Sequential/Timer - makes it bobble around 75% CPU when booting.
Added freeware program to Help 'cports.exe' Which can show all ports that are in use to help troubleshoot anti-virus and port glomming applications.
Open firewall as a separate thread for speed. Firewall has to run only if you change a region port setting, by adding or deleting, or on first start.
You cannot HG between two identical region locations. New systems change the "Welcome" region location from 1000,1000 to a random number from 1000 to 2000 to allow Hypergrid to other grids that have 1000,1000 set. Also sets the map center to the Welcome region location, whatever it is. Additional regions are added 4 to the right of the highest region as it did before.
Catch user 'blank' entries in Regions and Maps Settings.
"Allow Level Gods" was unchecked in Region Form, as it is based on the other settings being a null string, not "False".
Removed some unneeded logging that slowed down the system.
Warn if region location X,Y < 32, not possible to be that low in HG sims.
Enable Edit Button in Region Popup only if region is stopped.
Abort Handler reworked to end a race condition that should prevent occasional extra warnings on crashed regions. Also much faster to restart and recycle.
Codemaid extension in Visual Studio settings are saved in Git for multi-system development. Codemaid is a great tool for making the source consistent, but you need the same settings on each machine.
A Warm start is when you start DreamGrid on an already running Robust and set of regions. DG located into the Robust and regions as if it had already started them. Warm Starts after a "Just Quit" did not populate region handles list. This is fixed so RAM will now show up. Should also allow us to catch a crash after a Warm start.
I spell checked this document, finally. :-)

V3.28
Region List sometimes crashed the system when a race condition occurred after adding a region.
Region List now remembers the column widths for Detail view. 

V3.27
An Overall-Try-Catch in Application Events shows an error message and where the error occurred. Do not quit on an exception.
A missing or offline Welcome caused an issue - fixed
Added a Webstats button to region popup. It is enabled when the region is running
FSassets backup could cause a crash if folder did not exists
Suppressed several hundred warnings on Exceptions not being specific.
Remove compiled languages from git repo.

V3.26
Added 20 different language translations for 700+ phrases, resized many forms and prompts and tooltips to fix
Added YEngine and XEngine Switch

V3.25
Disable region Auto Backup added to region Overrides
Drop a useless old images to reduce size of exe
God mode fixes galore, reset defaults in Region INI to blanks
Added Overrides to Region List Details for carious Gods, Publicity and to skip region Auto Backup
Teleport hop link updated to hop in region list as secondlife link no longer works in Firestorm 6 series.
Clear script cache automagically if Opensim version or hash changes

V3.24
Updated to Released Opensim "0.9.1.1 Yeti "Server Release Notes" hash #defa235859889dbd". This is one patch past 0.9.1.0 for server release notes.

V3.23
Teleport to a region from within DreamGrid in the Region Start/Stop popup panel. 
Robust, Apache, Icecast and MySQL can be set to auto restart if they crash.
Update Mysq.Data.dll
Update Visual Studio 2017 to latest FXcops and reduce footprint on unused extension in Github
Removed embedded zip compressors for smaller footprint.
Drop unused icons

V3.22
Shorten boot time by being smart about Firewall updates. On an extremely fast machine, it takes 9 seconds to get to robust start. Firewall took up 31 seconds more. Now it takes 0 unless you add a region.
Restart Robust, Apache, MySQL, and Apache if Auto restart is Enabled

V3.21 
Saving a region and them immediately re-opening it did not show changes. The changes were saved to disk but not reloaded into RAM.
Rework the way ports increment from the starting number
Catch error in a crashed region that goes down while shutting down.
Strict type checking on some region variables. Integers, singles, and doubles versus strings.
Add Sean's latest Radio IAR to the free IAR collection
Y coordinate changed when X changed - was supposed to be region size.
God mode overrides fixed. They always overrode the global for Level 200 Gods to off, even if unselected.
Prevent a lower versus upper case issue if the puny human entered 'Autobackup'.

V3.2 RELEASE ROLLUP
A wrong "print" caused a crash when a backup was manually run.
Always use English culture until translations are available.


V3.197
Local Search in Settings did not 'stick;
Add Visual C++ 2015 installers for PHP7
Local search was broken by PHP7 - missing explicit ossearch directive
Fix up local search PHP to use "Metromap/includes/config.php" database include

V3.196
Added Garry Beaumont's wrecked home Icon that shows when the Welcome region is disabled.
Missing PHP7 extension prevented PHP from making maps, links, or search.
Clearing asset cache when running did not work. It went to robust instead of the online regions. It worked if you were offline.
Added a Module for File/folder copy and delete to clean up warnings and catch all possible errors.
Apache Settings allowed both Local and Global search to be set. Now a toggle for one or the other.

V3.195
New updater process loads files in background to a specific zip file. You can choose to ignore this version. It will re-prompt the next release. 
Dot Net zip set back to be 1.11.0 to be compatible with older updater. This causes a crash in the DLL.

V3.194
Big speed up on registering DYN DNS
Speed up Saving regions
Move Apache to its own setting.

Metro Maps was missing an include
V3.194
Speed up Saving regions
Move Apache to its own setting.
Set Apache to only run programs in htdocs
Metro Maps was missing an include

V3.193 
Unchecking Apache as a Service removes the service
Bug in Email prevented it from emailing confirmation of a new user
Bug in Settings caused Clear Cache button to crash
Cache setting added to enable viewer caches.
Iconic Zip DLL embedded in exe for updates.

V3.192
Update PHP to PHP7
Add Home Icon for the Welcome region when it is booted
Detect running Opensim and add them to PID so we can stop them
Test with Joomla/JOpensim
Refactors for Region Type, Usings, RobustDBConnection

V3.191
Stupid Oops in Regions. Could not add a new region

V3.19 
Updated manual for upcoming 3.2 release
Fixed glitch in V3.18 in Cloud Density
Disallow Foreigners switch added per-region. This lets you keep assets in your grid by disallowing assets to leave, yet allowing HG visitors to come and go.
Disallow Resident switch added per-region. This allows only Region Owners and Estate Managers in any given region.
Checked all IM vars against Opensim source and made minor changes they may help with the offline IM's getting stuck. Port 8003 should not need to be opened to allow IM's.

V3.18
Export Checkbox in Settings->permissions to disallow export of prims from viewers. Default -> Allow
If an OAR is loaded into a Var region > 4X4, allow it.
Removed lots of warnings in Visual Studio 2019.

V3.17 
release candidate for V3.2, the official release that everybody gets a notice to update to.
There is no longer an "updater versus installer". For backwards compatibility, there are still two files on the web server, but they are identical. 
If you want to start over with a blank database, you can just delete MySQL\data and it will be rebuilt as a blank system
New background updater process.
"Welcome to " & SimName() & " , <USERNAME>") set for welcome message.
Build process is much faster by using a temp folder instead of adding and deleting from a zip. Also easier to audit.
Put back support for older TLS 1.0 protocols so older systems can update.
Console Commands did not always pop open the DOS window
Load OAR in some earlier versions was borked.
GDI+ error when changing Publicity Photo is fixed
Snapshot, MinTimerInterval, Disable Gloebits fixed in region Overrides
MYSQL speedup with a small cache: query_cache_size=8M
Compile instructions updated.
Add help for ServerType, thanks to Garry Beaumont
Access of shared member through an instance; qualifying expression will not be evaluated refactored

V3.16 BETA
Search improvements for local and global search - sped up Datasnapshot interval, better HGV3 link that does not require a second click. Shows # hours each sim has been online in search, and dwell time (the Second Life visitor metric). 

V3.15 BETA 
Opensim Snail dev master #38dbc0328881 2019-08-31 14:36
Ctrl-R Region Form also shows the Estate name for each region
Search: Lots of new things! Search is integrated into Hyperica.com. You can look for Objects Marked for search in any Outworldz gird, or just your own. Also, locate Parcels, Grids, and regions in grids. These are only shown if the region owner chooses to enable search and the Prim Owner, region owner, or parcel owner has cheeked the "Show in Search button".
Added a new variable to Opensim Datasnapshot module to allow all grids to be searched.
Disable Search button added to Viewer Search. If on, you can set it so your residents see local only, or globally Search all Dream grids.
Datasnapshot collector starts 5 minutes after a boot to speed up collecting assets for search. Runs every hour after that locally.
Some Settings would not be placed into the Region or Opensim.ini files when changed unless you did a restart. Most changes to settings now re-write the region so it will boot correctly.
Import Dreamworld and "regular" Opensim INI files button in the Region Panel would not work if the file name did not match the [name] of the region. Fixed.
Changed Voice Help URL to match new Vivox web page for signup.
Windows can return a null PID from Process(). It should wait until there is a PID before returning. But nooooo it does not, so I added a fix to Boot () to make sure we have a valid PID so we can minimize windows. This may explain whey sometimes it does not type 'q' in certain windows.
Slow down the tests on quitting to prevent spamming the console.
Add more UPNP exception catchers to cover more brain-dead routers.
Major refactor of defaults for all region params to stop weird crashes on imported or brain-dead INI files. For example, a sim size of 0 was allowed by Opensim INI files. duh
Setting a new Publicity Photo could kill a system if the Hyperica server is offline or unreachable. Improve error handling here. There should be no dependency on any of my servers, except for optional services such as DYN DNS or search.
Updated Apache to latest security SSL/TLS 1.2 and made it refuse all obsolete ciphers like TLS 1.0 and 1.1. Tested as not being vulnerable to any common attacks such as Heart bleed.

V3.13 BETA
Repaired OsGrid and other region types that broke in prior beta version
Added a Disable Gloebits setting in region settings. This overrides the global setting if Gloebits are on.
Refactored a lot of internal settings to use native types and also set defaults for all variables in Regions.

V3.12 BETA
Sped up Opensim using Ubit's optimized Dot Net bug fix for Windows 1903 and compiled with dev master #5b39860573 2019-08-02 12:13:53
Robust logging set to INFO, as it was too noisy in DEBUG
Added auto-updating Sitemap.xml for htdocs and bin/data
Added Web Statistics button for many statistics for each region in the Region Panel
Auto firewall setup was missing the second Icecast Port
Fixed an issue where Apache could not run properly on ports other than 80
Datasnapshot was not registering in Local Search mode, which broke Local Search, and used wrong http port if it was changed.

V3.11 BETA
Aviworlds Region Server lets you attach to Aviworlds easily.
Added Restart Robust Button
Added logic to catch UPNP errors on some machines/routers.

V3.1 RELEASED 7/29/2019
Backup no longer blocks operation of the system
Backup FSAssets, too.
Xbakes enabled
IM Offline works without having to open port 8003.
Firewall code typo put an extra Apache Http Port 80 in the firewall every start.


V3.06
PHP Maps and Search working for any MYSQL port. Older systems used port 3309 as 3306 was use by some for Sim-On-A-Stick or OsGrid/Metro.
Use port 8003 for Offline IM to fix a problem where IM's would loop endlessly in the Console
Save IAR was non functional when all the Handles got dropped.
Save IAR needs to find a running region. If the first region was found, the region was not popped up on screen. Old bug.
osGetGridGatekeeperURI enabled for teleport HUD by anybody.

V3.05 
Fixed doubled Auto teleports for Prim V2.5

V3.04 
Fixed a bug where the Auto Teleporters showed regions that are unmarked for teleports.
Opening Cache form with a lot of cache caused an exceedingly long pause. 
Fixed a case where Apache may not start reliably. 

V3.03
Added Help for FSAssets.
Added more visible help button to all forms.
Flotsam Cache variables can be changed to reduce disk space usage. See Settings->Caches.
System Backup has options for each type of backup to make and includes FSAssets data.
Added MinTimerInterval to each region INI file. Smallest value you should use is 1/11 of a second, as that is Opensim's internal Frame rate. 

V3.02
Added Windows 1903 patches for Dot net 4.8 that caused many issues with MOAP, and changing land settings.
Checkbox to enable FsAssets - a disk based De-duplicating Asset File system. I recommend you start your regions one at a time so they will be properly de-duplicated one time.
Reworked Region/OsGrid server to allow regions to have their own IP address. Usually you do not need to do anything to run a region server except to
add the DNS name and change the setting. But this fails if the region server is on a different network. See Ports section Help for details.
Auto Teleports now support multiple region servers. Avatar counts will not work on Region servers - no access to the data unless you edit robust settings and grant access to the robust server with special MySQL commands.
Added a catch-all Error message handler for any missed exceptions to catch unexpected crashes.
Flotsam cache can be adjusted in size with a new panel.
Allow the Partners to work on region server. Also updated the Steam punk TP and set the partners prim to full mod/copy.
SupportViewerObjectsCache -= true explicitly to help with missing prims, theoretically this does nothing as true is the default. See http://opensimulator.org/mantis/view.php?id=8516

V3.01 
ExternalHostName added to the Port section for use on non-NATed Region servers.
Added Outworldz Teleport System V2.5.iar to the Local IAR. This teleporter supports more than 32 sims. Just change the description from 0 to 1, or 2 or 3, and reset the scripts.
Create Region Name could not be typed into at the ending. Trim() fixed. 
Moved KillAll scripts towards end of boot, and made it run only once.
Lowered Cache sizes to 4 hr from 48 and made it adjustable.

V3.0 
Functionally the same as V2.96 with some additional Help file tweaks.

V2.96
Allow more than one LCD screen in the Auto re-positioner/resizer
Enable Xbakes
Server Visitor screens by Garry Beaumont in Local IAR

God mode for level 200+ incorrect also set Region Owner gods to on.

V2.95
Compiled with Opensim Master 6-8-2019 #38e937f91b08a2e52 
Helps fix prims not being seen – if still losing them, lower your viewer bandwidth
Create inventory entries for textures uploaded with a model
MySQL could use up too many handles
Fixed %CPU to 2 digits on main screen
Databaseinfo.php and config.php are set automatically to match possible database user/password changes – used in Search, examples, and maps.
Stop printing extra '0 regions running' while it checks them all, just stop.
Add Microsoft Runtime for Visual C++ 2012 32 and 64 bit


V2.94
Fix a case issue on Partners that broke partnering prim

V2.93
Auto detect any loopback adapter named "Loopback", and set it up when the grid starts.
This set loopback adapters with the correct IP automatically.
V2.92
Correct the count of HG Avatars in Region List – was showing only the 1st one
Added a longer timeout to MySQL connections.
Drop Xbakes 
“real' check if sim is still shutting down by poking port.

V2.91 
Fixed nasty bug on Regions that caused crashes when region was renamed
Icons change in region list for 1 or more avatars
Allow oSSetDynamic texture and other settings so Aine Caoime’s (Anya Kee-vah) dance machine works for anyone.
Programmable Welcome Message on viewer screen
OsGrid and Metro support. 
Comes with MSFT signed installers for Apaches' necessary DLL's.
Bug in 3X3 load oar fixed where two of the tiles has wrong coordinates.
Deletes all old DLLs that are not in the list 'dll.txt'.
Installs for Microsoft C++ 1012 32/64 bit which are needed for Apache.
A UUID could be zeroed out, leading to a crash.

V2.90
Release of V2.89 with another DLL deleted.

V2.89
Try-catch a possible crash on events load if Outworldz web site is offline. There should never be any dependencies on having an external PC running except for ns1.outworldz.net for dynamic DNS and that only applies to outworldz.net users. DreamGrid pulls a list of available OARS, IARs, and events from Outworldz.com web site periodically, and these are dependent on Outworldz.com being online.
Removed bin\addins as it is old, unused, and may have old DLLS in it leading to mysterious crashes about log4net because log4net is now Dot net 4.6.

V.28
Add Gloebit back in.
Delete 11 DLL's left over from ancient updates.

V2.87
Compiled with Opensim Dev Master 4/24/2019 #11cad57c9cac5 
You should clear the script cache before starting this version as the large jump in Opensim code will likely lead to Script errors.
RegionReady set to localhost as Server2016 will run without Administrator mode.

V2.86 
Patched to fix Sequential Start. If on, nothing happened to delay the next sim from starting immediately but it should have waited for the previous sim to boot first, then start the next region. If off, CPU less than 75% is needed before the next sim will start or stop.

V2.85 
Link to web page takes you to http://yourgrid:80where the large map is, or 8002, depending upon whether Opensim is running, and if you have Apache web server enabled. 
Apache port is movable. If your ISP blocks :80, try :8000
Diagnostics loopback test reworked for Server 2016. 
Icons fixed on Server 2016 by moving port 8001 to listen to localhost only.

V2.84 
Search local or remote grids is now a global setting. Global is still being edited, as it has no grid info yet.
Paging, search, sort by columns in Search Objects.
Events re-added by a pull from Outworldz e very hour and on startup

V 2.83
Apache 2.4 and PHP 5 added - may be enabled by a new switch in Web Control panel. You can run HTML and JavaScript with it or host your own Port 80 Web pages, assuming your ISP allows port 80.
Hypergrid.org‘s “MetroMap” (large and small) added to the url http:://(grid):80/Metromap and to the Wifi Home Screen.
You can run 3rd party programs such as PhpMyAdmin, Strawberry Perl and other CGI programs by adding the application. 
Perl examples for Template::Toolkit and DBIX::Class to manipulate the database are included in the Apache\htdocs\PerlExamples folder.
PHP Examples are in the Apache\htdocs\Search folder for Classifieds, Logging, Dumping Objects, Parcels, Regions, and Hosts.
Objects and regions marked as ‘Show in Search’ are Searchable in the Viewer (Ctrl-F in Firestorm). Requires Apache and PHP Switch to be enabled in Web Pages. Classifieds do not work yet.
Load OAR defaults to all options off.
New Auto-Restart on Crash switch enabled by default.
New Auto-Restart on Bulletsim Crash.
Memory leak plugged 
Sort order sorted for X,Y and RAM in Region Panel by adding leading zeros.
Faster startup started faster by skipping phase II settings unless you have edited something.
Predefined Colored logs
Enable these colored logs by selecting Save on Exit option ‘To File in Application Directory’ 

2.82 
Disabling a region while shutting it down caused the Regions panel to not render.
Help always appeared for Load Oar 2X2
Added a PopUp for 1X1 so you can set more options.
Added back the View buttons to Regionlist and made them resize and re-position the list

2.81
Add Memory used for each region to Region panel
Add RAM graph
Add Avatar, CPU and RAM to front panel
Save width for Main Form

2.8 RELEASE 
2.79E = 2.8

2.79A THROUGH E:
Avatar count shown on main form at upper right.
Prompts before shutting down if any avatars are in any region. So you can deliberately kill then all! bwuhahaha
Clear Caches was in Help, now is a Settings Button for consistency.
Baretail logging system with colorized text, live scrolling.
"View All Logs" loads all logs into Baretail as tabs. Baretail.exe in the root folder remembers them.
"View Region Log" fixed to show the DOS box log instead of the region, which only worked on the last region in a DOS box.
Scrolling text in Status panel.
Resizable main form.
CPU speed graph for last 3 minutes.
Improved PC firewall ports opened on start.
Turns off the DOS box Quickedit mode. If you clicked a DOS box, it paused which eventually crashes the sim. Works on Private or Public Networks, not Domain.
Regions panel added an Avatar view that shows a list of avatar names and the regions they are in. Double-clicking a name will start a teleport sequence to that avatar in your viewer.
Region Panel remembers the last view set, and will reappear after a restart if it was open. 
Many changes to Recycling and Auto restart. More icons for recycling regions. Recycle up and recycle down are single blue arrows, Bootup and Shutdown are double Blue arrows.

2.78
The Log viewer 'baretail' is included. It lets you colorize text, is zippy fast, and auto-scrolls to the latest entry, like Unix tail does.
Caps lock no longer interferes with console typing. I hate the Cap Lock Key. 
Load OAR options: 2x2, 3X3 and 4X4 clickable forms, with options for UserName & ForceMerge & ForceTerrain & ForceParcel & Displacement
Will abort Normalize regions if region locations will go negative or zero in X or Y.
Repositioned Web Maps for better fit to normalized region
Log level for robust set to INFO, instead of DEBUG, less spam, more speed.

2.77
Fix for Partners
Firewall Ports on PC are opened for you.
Robust 'create user' sent extra CRLF making it impossible to create the initial owner

2.76
Blank DNS name needs no password, becomes LAN IP.
Restart Region patch

2.75
Region Panel added some of the overrides and global region settings. These can be sorted as well.
Also, the Height and Width you last used are saved and restored.
Start/Stop/Restart All Buttons added to Region Panel
Region Chooser fixed to have New Name at top.

2.74 
Teleports 2.4 fix - these do not spam the console. Does not require any settings to be set such as allow LSL scripts. 
Allow LSL when checked, scripts lets you manually edit the Allowed IP Addresses in Opensim.proto
Start Regions Sequentially: Unchecked, the system starts a new region every few seconds. This can overwhelm the memory and CPU on slower systems.
UnChecked normally starts a new region if CPU is 75% or less. 
Checking this box will start them one at a time and wait for it to boot completely. It will wait up to 3 minutes per region, then move on.
Changes to Icecast ports or settings did not 'stick' would not overwrite file.
More Help on Loopback, Regions, Start/Stop

2.73
OAR file save would dump one region into all OARS. not just one
Sort Chooser screen
BaseURL was incorrect in some 2.72

2.72
Simple Google HTML Map added to http://localhost:8002/wifi/map.html
Allow only letters, numbers '.' and '-' in DNS names/IP Addresses
New User Home X,Y,Z: Users that create accounts on the web page will land at this spot on your Welcome region with their home set here so they can hypergrid back home.
Simplified INI constants updated from Jeff Kelly, thanks!
Suppress crash if Outworldz webserver is offline and you have Publicity checked - threaded apartment violation

2.71
Improvements to Start/Stop/Edit/Restart popup - no more double clicking effect
Try catch in case any ports were blanked out
MySQL Region port set to same as MySQL robust port on initial startup.
Removed several duplicated licenses.

2.7
Added AGPL license popup on first start
Added Startup Help on first run
Region Database can be set to a different machine and port
Clicking a region brings in region menu it to the foreground
Tab indexes set for Common Settings
Allow multi-instances. This means you can run two different folders at the same time. You must use different ports.

2.69
"Run as Administrator" for the webserver because Icons would not change reliably. Now uses a webserver class. 
Removed limit on number of regions. Was 100 to 200 before.
New "Deregister button" for region when two sims overlap.
New Rev 2.4 Teleports in the Local IARs that do not spam the console.
Log at INFO level for production use.
Many Auto Restart improvements. Recycle icon added. 
Clicking a Region gives a context sensitive Start/Stop/Recycle/Edit form.
Console titles sometimes would not 'take'. Fixed for good.
Allow blank DNS name which means to use the LAN IP.
Add Vista compatibility, also 7, 8, 10.
Help-> "View All Logs" Menu.
Help-> "View Revisions" link.
Help-> "Clear Server Cache" sixes and informational messages.
Help-> "Help on Settings" Menu

2.68
V4 updater and installer 
rm broken OpenSim.Addons.AutoRestart.dll
Deregister region button in RegionForm
Hide Icecast if consoles are hidden

2.67
Show robust Windows when console commands are sent.
Show Recycle Icons all the way down when auto restarting

2.66
Recycle Icons when auto restarting
Data snapshot checkbox would not save
Saving a region popped it into a new DOS box. 

2.65
Icon fixes for speed
Console shows stats every 5 minutes
White Web page had bad color on edit and delete user buttons
Added help for publicity

2.64 
Oops, reset MySQL Log size = 10M, not 2M, tweaks to buffers and threads
Stop trying to run if MySQL fails

2.63
White pages look more like Black, only whiter!
Added a Help Menu for all internal help files
Help for Region List and many other modules
Speed up crash recovery in MySQL
Zip builder cleanup 
Blank Database changes

2.61
Console may be hidden when booted
Fix settings bug making a shortcut each boot
Do not auto restart if MySetting.AutoRestartInterval() = 0
Do not process login shutdown message in JSON - does not work and irritates the icons
Suppress possible error in Upload Image
Personality timer now running
Always upload photo if there is one 
Doubled estate bug fixed in regions.

2.59
Web timer set to 1 MS for speedier response
Added Publicity Form

2.58
Help files pop up on form load, once.
Region type = Estate in viewer
Added many Help files 
Autobackup went to wrong folder on Key files backup

V2.57 
Setting page changed to discrete Form Buttons - no more Expert screen
Wifi pages has two themes: B&W or W&B with theme image
Add built-in Help pages 
UpdaterGridV3 released with progress reporting.

V2.56
Possible crash fix.

V2.55
Faster exit of app when regions are combined
Print count of things cleared from caches
Do not stop MySQL if already running
Updates re-enable check for updates
Faster refresh of Region Form when something changes
 
V2.54
Suppress clutter - only one DreamGrid form of each type
Added a "backup critical files" to the Content menu - copies both Wifi folders, all Regions and MySQL\data folder plus Settings.ini to Autobackup in a new folder by Date/Time
An Update prompts to make a critical files backup first.
Add Help Links for OAS and IARS and Technical Information
Fixed Region Gods switch not being displayed in Expert menu
Cache adjusted to save disk space and use a 1-minute RAM cache
Check for Updates sets Check flag back on.

V2.53 
Stop crash in Check Post, make birds be REALLY disabled when it is off by renaming the DLL

V2.52 
Click Ctrl R or Settings->Region brings the regions panel to the front unless it is minimized.
Auto restart can be set to low values if Autobackup is off. Otherwise it is set to Auto Backup interval + 0.5 hour to allow time for backup
Fixed issue where Auto restart did not always restart a region by running webserver and exit handlers on a timer
Prompt at exit to leave Opensim running.
Gifs should resize on large font machines.
Birds crash prevented on some sims by renaming OpenSimBirds.Module.dll to .bak.
Recompiled and signed all files

V2.51
Forms remember their last moved-to position. 

V2.50
Form Region now set to full size - no more [More] Button

V2.49
Some forms not set to Auto scale as DPI for high rez monitors.
More intuitive Click action on the Chooser form - Single click a cell selects the entire row, double click selects and OK's it.

V2.48
Startup sometimes checked the wrong region port when starting an offline region.

V2.47
You can create a New Group Name when installing a new region, or select an existing Group Name
Rename of region could throw an error on a blank name
Forms have Tab key reordered
Icons on all forms
Skip UPnP for Icecast if disabled (minor speedup of boot time)
Set INI for all regions, even if disabled, so you can start them at any time, add +1 to new regions ports
UPnP Manager try-catch on bad routers

V2.46 
Could not save a region name due to a bad variable name

V2.45
More graceful test of regions running at shutdown 
Region settings for Physics, once set, would not unset.

V2.44
Prim limits global setting was not being used. If Prim limits global is off, no prim limits are enforced
Set Ip to LAN IP if loopback test fails. Before it would still set WAN IP.
Set all region ports from base setting when a region is added or deleted
Deleting Caches no longer deletes script state.

V2.43
Upgrade always set region ports to 8004, or 1 on new installs- now it uses the lowest port it finds or 8004.
Birds recompiled

V2.42 
If Autobackup folder does not exist, restore the defaults.
Console logging lowered to INFO from DEBUG 
Cryptographically re-signed all EXE and DLL's
Login URL exposed to get_grid_info had an extra space in it
Opensim.log now appears in each Region folder in each Group
Support > 4 TB HDD in MySQL

V2.41
Tide High and Low Water levels were swapped

V2.4
Fix crash in Birds on quit
200 region capacity
Progress bar fix
Stop Memory leak in HttpServer_OpenSim.dll

V2.39
No need to enable "Allow LSL to reach the server" switch to use the teleporter
fix DNS names with :8002 and http://

V2.38
Teleport IAR makes a Grid-wide Teleporter for the first 32 regions.

V2.37 
Auto Restart interval for each Region Instance
Tides module lets you have working tides and floating objects that move with the water
Includes an IAR with a floating buoy

V2.36
Regions auto-count up

V2.35
God mode was always off and could only be enabled in regions.

V2.34
Add an extra {ENTER} before typing commands

V2.33
Single threaded updater - the multi-threaded version would not start a thread on some machinery.
Gloebits Sell enabled bug fixed by setting “sell” true
Bird Startup Fix
More Region Error check
Maps shows a blank tile when off.
Maps in Region Panels match Global if set to default
No accept button for TOS needed.
Better map for Better map image
Tos does not require an acceptance
Birds have two on/off, one global and one for region

Added a blank database for restart from Zero


V2.32 

"Load Local IAR" and "Load Local OAR" menu items so you can quickly find your local OARS. These links scan the Outworldzfiles\OAR and \IAR folders for files.

V2.31

Explicit casts (warnings removed)
DataSnapshotCheckBox was not showing check on form load 
Clicking Accept on TOS gave an error.
Default for Auto Restart set to off (0 minutes)
Force region to foreground when typing in commands

V2.30
Made from OpenSimulator 0.9.1.dev.24df1086fa 05-24-2018 (same as OsGrid)

Suitcase or No Suitcase? A suitcase protects your inventory from rogue grids. When you are on another grid, you can only access what is in your suitcase. You can now disable the suitcase and rez objects from anywhere in your inventory while on foreign grids.
Prim limits: Opensimulator can enforce a prim limit. Property owners can enable it to enforce MAXPRIMS on each parcel. MAXPRIMS can be set in each Region panel under 'More'
Data Snapshot for any prims marked as "show in Search". This replaces the broken Diva search. It works across all DreamGrids.
 - Prim Info (location, for sale, etc.) is sent to http://hyperica.com/. The actual search engine is under development. Enable this in Settings-Expert at bottom left corner.
 - Classified ad will soon be possible across the Outworldz.
Mail Exposed more SMTP email server settings than just Gmail.
Publicity Upload an image and description to Hyperica.com's Hypergrid list.
Region Fixes You can add a region and immediately start it. Or delete a region, and nothing will break. Clicking a region prompts you to start/stop. 
Backups changed into separate robust and opensim.sql region files. 
Clickable Console commands
 - Show lots of stats about any region.
 - User Management, Add, Show info
 - Log level management
 - Script On/Off Management
Auto-repair of port conflicts.
DreamGrid tracks Up/Down and avatar status for p to 100 regions.
Includes Opensimulator Source code and compile commands
HTML editor for TOS for web page
Blue 3-prim box icon!

Modules:
 - Web stats module for grid ops
 - Server Release Notes Module by Fly Man adds these notes to Help About
 - Auto Restart Module by Fly Man. You can Auto Restart regions automagically with a timer. If no avatars are in the region, it will auto-reset periodically. This clears RAM used by visitors and helps maintain stability. 240 minutes (4 hours) is the default.
 - Birds Module by jonc and Jak Daniels: 

