These OAR-files are the complete backup of the 4freedom sim on OSgrid.

4 Freedom is a group of individuals that promote and spread freedom in Second Life and OpenSim based grids like OSGrid and Newworldgrid. 
The ideas of freedom are based on the ones of Free Software Foundation.

The sim is full of truly free items.
From more many sources.

-
How do I use the OpenSim Archive Function:
On your server go to the bin directory and place the file there.
To load an archive, type  in the opensim console
	load oar [oarnamehere]
It will take a while to completely load it.
Its meant to be all full perm as statet in the copyleft lisence.
If by mistake something isnt full perm you can use the god tooles to force full perm.
-
Thanx to the whole 4freedom group, OSgrid, Nebadon, opensim-creations.com and manny more.

Enjoy


OAR-files 4Freedom OpenSimulator

Copyleft 4Freedom 2011

All items and the backupfile itself is licensed under the following license: Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0) 
Exseptions are some items where atribution and license is in the desciption inside the prims of the items. (those licenses are compatible with this creative commonce license)

human-readable license: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/
Legal Code (the full license): http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/legalcode

You are free:

    * to Share  to copy, distribute and transmit the work
    * to Remix  to adapt the work
    * to make commercial use of the work
    *

Under the following conditions:

    *

      Attribution  You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests
      that they endorse you or your use of the work).

      Attribute this work:
      Information
      What does "Attribute this work" mean?
      The page you came from contained embedded licensing metadata, including how the creator wishes to be attributed for re-use.
      You can use the HTML here to cite the work. Doing so will also include metadata on your page so that others can find the original work as well.
    *

      Share Alike  If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may distribute the resulting work only under the same or similar license to this one.

With the understanding that:

    * Waiver  Any of the above conditions can be waived if you get permission from the copyright holder.
    * Public Domain  Where the work or any of its elements is in the public domain under applicable law, that status is in no way affected by the license.
    * Other Rights  In no way are any of the following rights affected by the license:
          o Your fair dealing or fair use rights, or other applicable copyright exceptions and limitations;
          o The author's moral rights;
          o Rights other persons may have either in the work itself or in how the work is used, such as publicity or privacy rights.
    * Notice  For any reuse or distribution, you must make clear to others the license terms of this work. The best way to do this is with a link to this web page.

