Users running Opensim 0.8.2 
The castle near the church turns phantom. You can't walk inside it.
You could add scripted furniture, one had to click on it and sit. Otherwise they will felt through the floor.

It might work with another castle. Depending on how the mesh was uploaded.

For those running Opensim 0.9.xxx the castle will be fine.

I worked 25 days on this project and happy to have finished it. I hope you will enjoy it :)
What will you receive:

An island where a couple can marry and spend their honeymoon. It has a decorated gazebo with animations 
for the bride, groom, Best Lady, Ladies of Honor, Best Man and Groomsmen. And for the preacher.

For LGBT: The animations are unisex. Just change the colors of the poseballs the way you need them.

The reception ballroom is huge. Places for the guests and a special table for family and close friends. Also a bar.
All furniture is scripted. Mostly PMAC. The bed in the couple's bedroom has adult animations.
So has the hidden cave. To help you find it, I have placed a red arrow pointing to it. Just walk thorugh.
Bath with animated tube. Sorry I didn't added anims to the shower, but it has running water. You can add your animations :)

The stairs from the cave go to a spacy under water free space. You could place there whatever you like. Maybe an adult BDSM room.

The brick path to the ancient ruins through the forrest, has forrest ambient sounds. Two little kitties got lost. Follow the meaww and find them.
Touch on/off the sunbeam in the forrest to let butterflies fly around it. The castle is not furnished.

As always do whatever you like with this oar. Feel free to delete what you don't like. I know there is a lot of better furniture around,
but I try to stick with creators I know they make their freebies.

What else? ah a pool table (not scripted) also a Surfing Club with greedy games. A last note. I have tried to reduce the sounds of
the waves to the minimum. If you dont like it, delete them.

A suggestion for you: You could place this oar in a 2x2 (512x512) VAR region in the center and build around to have more landscaped area.

This will be my last OAR this year. I will be gone, coming back in September. 

Have fun!

Isis Ophelia (same name in all worlds)
March 13th, 2018